
=== PAGE 1 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Welcome to your guide…
POLICE OFFICER
NATIONAL SIFT SJT
QUESTIONS & ANSWERS!
Copyright © How2Become.com. All Rights Reserved.
For personal use only.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 2 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Disclaimer:
How2Become is not responsible for anyone failing any part of any selection process as a result of
the information contained within this resource. How2Become and their authors cannot accept any
responsibility for any errors or omissions within this resource, however caused. No responsibility
for loss or damage occasioned by any person acting, or refraining from action, as a result of the
material in this publication can be accepted by How2Become.
IMPORTANT: All resources, products, content, and training from How2Become is intended for
educational use only, as an aid to help you prepare and come up with your own honest answers.
How2Become is not acting in conjunction with, or associated with, any third-party organisation.
Get more guides, books and training courses at the website www.How2Become.com.
Copyright © How2Become.com. All Rights Reserved. For personal use only.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 3 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
The Competencies and Values Framework
As of May 2024, the College of Policing, have implemented a new version of the
Competencies and Values Framework. This framework, is gradually being introduced into
the selection process and aims to be completed and accessible to all home office police
forces by May 2025.
However, certain elements of the selection process are due to be implemented in July
2024, namely the Online Assessment Centre Briefing Exercise. Later in the year, in
September, the competency-based interview and the written exercise are scheduled to
move over to the new CVF. The National SIFT SJT and Behavioural Styles Questionnaire
(which this guide focuses on) are due to move over to the update in the last quarter of
2024. This guide will be further updated when further information is available. Please
note, we do recommend that you clarify with the HR team which CVF you will be
assessed against.
The New Competencies & Values Framework
The new framework now consists of three values and six competencies. The main change
is with the values as of the original four values only one remains ‘Public Service’. The
other two values are ‘Respect & Empathy’ and ‘Courage’. The competencies for the most
part remain the same apart ‘Deliver, support & inspire, which is now Support & Inspire.
For the purpose of this guide and the Behavioural Styles Questionnaire we will use both
the 2016 & 2024 Competencies and Values Framework. Before commencing with the
exercise, let’s look a little closer at the 2024 CVF and what it means.
2024 CVF Values
The revised CVF reflects a deeper understanding of the complexities of modern policing.
It acknowledges the need for officers and staff to not only perform their duties but also to
embody values that foster trust and cooperation within the community. The most notable
changes are within the values and what they now mean.
Courage
Facing dangerous situations head-on to protect the public and uphold the law.
•
Challenging inappropriate behaviour, both within the police force and in the
•
community, and taking a stand against injustice and unethical practices.
Maintaining composure and effectiveness under pressure, and being able to recover
•
quickly from setbacks and challenges.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 4 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Respect & Empathy
Recognising and appreciating the unique experiences and perspectives that
•
different individuals bring.
Engaging with individuals in a way that shows genuine care and consideration for
•
their circumstances.
Ensuring that all interactions are conducted with fairness, without bias or
•
discrimination.
Public Service
Building strong, trusting relationships with community members through regular
•
interaction and consultation.
Identifying and addressing potential issues before they escalate into significant
•
problems. This includes working with community groups, other agencies, and using
data to anticipate and mitigate risks.
Ensuring that all community members, regardless of back- ground, have equal
•
access to police services and feel their voices are heard and valued.
You can see from the above that integrity, impartiality and transparency are no longer
included. However, you will find that the main behaviours of these are still apparent in the
remaining value ‘Public Service’ and the new ‘Courage’ and ‘Respect & Empathy’
For the most part the competencies remain unchanged, but some have been slightly re-
worded. The main difference is in the values.
As previously stated the College of Policing, are allowing forces to transform to the new
CVF by May 2025, so in this guide we will reference both the 2016 & 2024 competencies
and values during this exercise. So, the 2016 CVF consists of the following:
• Emotionally aware
• Innovative & open-minded
• Analyse critically
• Deliver, support, & inspire
• Collaborative
• Take ownership
And the four core values:
• Transparency
• Public service
• Integrity
• Impartiality
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 5 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Police Values (2016 CVF)
The police values are a key part of the basic behavioural guidelines for any police
employee. As one of the most esteemed and respected organisations in the world, the UK
Police naturally have a number of values that they expect all candidates and employees
to abide by, along with a strong code of ethics. In the past, the police have largely focused
on the competencies of candidates rather than on their values as a person. While these
values were still important, they played a secondary role. Now, the police are recognising
that it’s extremely important to hire candidates with strong values and ethics. The police
values are as follows:
Impartiality
Impartiality is all about staying true to the key principles of fairness and objectivity. It’s
absolutely vital that police constables can be impartial when dealing with members of the
public, and with their colleagues. You must treat every single person that you meet with
fairness and equal consideration, and be able to recognise and reprimand any and all
forms of discrimination. Police constables must be able to put aside their personal feelings
or beliefs and make decisions with clear logic and rationale.
A police constable who can act with impartiality can:
• Understand the varying needs of individuals, and take these into account when making
decisions.
• Treat every person in a fair and respectful manner.
• Ensure that they communicate effectively with everyone they meet, clearly relaying the
message.
• Challenge prejudice and discrimination, whenever it arises.
• Make decisions using fair and objective reasoning.
• Value and appreciate the opinions of everyone whom they come into contact with,
provided they are not in contradiction with the police code of ethics.
Integrity
Integrity is another extremely important part of the police code of ethics. Police constables
must be able to act with integrity and decency at all times, and be capable of recognising
both good and poor performance. As a police constable, your professionalism is
absolutely integral. You are a representative of the police – a role model – and therefore
it’s fundamental that you can present an honest and trustworthy approach to the public.
By doing this, you can build confidence with the public in the police force and deliver a far
more effective service.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 6 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
A police constable with integrity can:
• Ensure that they behave in accordance with the police code of ethics, and make
decisions that are focused on benefitting the public.
• Make decisions that will improve the reputation of the police, and understand their
position as a role model within society.
• Welcome and take on board constructive criticism.
• Use their position of authority in society in a fair and professional manner, and as a force
for positive change.
Public Service
The third value on the list is public service. This value again links back to the police code
of ethics, and is essentially about acting with the best interests of the public in mind. The
police are there to protect the public, and safeguard them from harm. Therefore, it’s
important that your decisions are made with this aim in mind. You must be able to
evaluate different strategies, how they will be of benefit to the wider public, and take
responsibility for delivering upon these. Furthermore, public service is about facing up to
challenges and adversity, and overcoming these obstacles, to provide a great level of
service. You must be able to engage and communicate with the public, listening to their
needs and making them feel valued and appreciated.
A police constable with good public service can:
• Act with the best interests of the public in mind.
• Put the needs of the public above their own interests.
• Adapt their communication to the appropriate audience.
• Make a conscious effort to understand the needs of different members of the public
Transparency
Transparency is a really important quality for any police constable to have. This value is
closely linked with honesty. It’s essentially about being someone whom others can trust
and have faith in. You must be able to explain, verbally and in writing, the rationale behind
your decisions. You must be genuine with everyone you are communicating with, and
make a concerted attempt to build trusting and strong relationships with your colleagues.
Likewise, you must be someone who is capable of accepting criticism and improving your
own working practice. It’s very important that you can learn from and accept your own
mistakes.
A police constable with transparency can:
• Be truthful, honest and tactful with others.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 7 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
• Demonstrate an honest and critical approach to their own work, accepting that there are
always areas for improvement.
• Take a clear and comprehensive approach to communicating with colleagues and
members of the public.
• Behave in a way that invites members of the public, and their colleagues, to trust in them
and their decision making.
• Understand and maintain confidentiality.
Looking at the values, you should be able to see that these are all basic behavioural
qualities that you would expect from any police constable. During the selection process,
it’s likely that you’ll be challenged on these values – through interview questions and
various exercises, so make sure you study sufficiently, learning them properly.
Core Competencies
Core competencies are a set of behavioural characteristics that all candidates are
expected to exhibit. These are behavioural qualities that you will need to demonstrate on
a constant basis while working as a police constable, and therefore it’s vital for the police
to establish that you understand said qualities, and that you’ve previously demonstrated
them in the past.
Emotionally Aware
It’s very important for police constables to be emotionally aware. Not only do you need to
be emotionally aware towards the needs and feelings of others, but you also need to be
emotionally aware of yourself. You must be able to control your emotions when under
high amounts of pressure, and exhibit strong levels of decision making. Police work is
highly stressful, and will push you to your limits. Therefore, it’s vital that police employees
can stay calm and collected, and manage their emotions.
Candidates must exhibit qualities such as:
• Treating others with respect and compassion.
• Acknowledging other people’s opinions, values and beliefs – provided they fall within
lawful boundaries.
• Asking for help when necessary.
• Recognising their own limitations, and seeking assistance in accordance with this.
• Adapting their approach to the needs of specific/different individuals.
• Promoting diversity and valuing the different qualities of individual colleagues.
• Encouraging others to reflect on their work, and supporting them to improve.
• Taking responsibility for the emotional welfare of their team members.
• Understanding the reasons behind certain organisational behaviour requirements, and
playing a key role in adapting and improving these expectations when necessary.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 8 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
• Using their influence in an effective and professional manner, to help resolve internal
issues within the police force.
• Viewing police work through a variety of spectrums, and being able to challenge their
own views and assumptions.
Taking Ownership
In order to work as a police constable, it’s vital that you can take ownership and
responsibility, and be accountable for your own actions. Part of this means accepting that
sometimes minor mistakes will happen, but the way you deal with these is what is
important. You must learn from your mistakes, and seek improvement-based feedback.
Furthermore, it’s critical that you can take pride in your work, and recognise your own
limitations.
Candidates must exhibit qualities such as:
• Accurately identifying and then responding to problems/issues.
• Completing tasks with enthusiasm and positivity.
• Taking responsibility for their own decisions.
• Providing others with helpful and constructive feedback on their working practice.
• Promoting an internal and external culture of ownership and responsibility, so that their
colleagues can also take responsibility for their own decisions.
• Play an active role in making improvements to the police force, through regular
examination of police policies and procedures, to ensure that the service is operating to its
maximum potential.
• Taking accountability for the decisions that other members of their team make.
• Taking personal responsibility for correcting problems that they notice within the force.
• Embracing the idea of being a role model, and using mistakes and errors as a learning
process and a chance for improvement.
• Helping to instigate measures that will allow others to take responsibility in a more
effective and smooth fashion.
• Looking at issues from a wider police perspective, and how they will impact the
reputation of the service as a whole.
• Being someone, whom others can look up to, in order to see the excellent and all-
encompassing standards and values of the UK police.
Working Collaboratively
Teamwork is a fundamental part of working as a police constable; the better you can work
as part of a collaborative unit, the better level of service you can provide to the public.
Good police work is about building partnerships, not just with your colleagues, but with
members of the public too. You must be polite and respectful with every person that you
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 9 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
meet, and show that the police value the ideals of teamwork, collaboration and social
unity.
Candidates must exhibit qualities such as:
• Working cooperatively and in harmony with colleagues and professionals from other
organisations.
• Exhibiting an approachable and friendly exterior, so that others feel comfortable asking
them for help or guidance.
• Showing a genuine interest and appreciation in other people, their views and opinions, in
order to build comradery and rapport.
• Treating every person that they meet as an individual.
• Managing the relationship between the police service and partnership organisations,
with the aim of producing long-term benefits for the general public.
• Working with partnership organisations, to create public welfare initiatives.
• Communicating effectively with everyone whom they come into contact with.
• Working amicably and professionally with members of the public, to build trust in the
police service.
• Demonstrating political awareness, and an understanding of how politics can impact on
the relationship between the police and their partnership agencies.
• Helping others to build relationships with external potential partnership organisations,
which could be of benefit to the police and the general public.
• Setting the standard for the way in which partnership organisations interact with and
work with the police service.
• Helping to create an environment that is conducive to partnership work.
Deliver, Support and Inspire (Support & Inspire 2024 CVF)
It’s imperative that police constables understand the wider vision of the police service.
You must use the police’s values in your day-to-day work, and show a dedication to
working in the best interests of the public. Your positive contribution to the police is
extremely important. Police constables must show an understanding of how their
behaviour impacts on the reputation of the service, and strive to make a positive
contribution to this at all times. You must be focused on helping your teammates to
achieve high standards, whilst maintaining your own.
Candidates must exhibit qualities such as:
• Being willing and ready to tackle challenging tasks, with the aim of improving the output
of the police service.
• Demonstrating an understanding of how their work contributes to the police.
• Taking a conscientious and resilient approach to police work, always endeavouring to
provide the best possible service.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 10 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
• Using resources efficiently, to make a significant impact.
• Giving clear instructions to others, and helping colleagues to understand how their work
impacts the wider police service.
• Breaking down potential barriers to optimal performance.
• Providing advice and support to the public and to your colleagues.
• Using resources in the most appropriate and efficient manner, to deliver a significant
impact.
• Motivating others, and inspiring them to achieve success and maintain high standards.
• Constantly challenging others to maintain the vision of the police service, to the highest
possible standards.
• Making conscious efforts to demonstrate to their colleagues about how specific tasks
and ideas link in with the wider vision of the police.
• Helping others to understand their individual goals, comprehensibly, and how these
goals fit in with the wider vision of the police.
• Monitoring changes, both internally and externally, and taking steps to guarantee
positive outcomes.
• Thinking in a strategic and detailed fashion, demonstrating long-term planning and
knowledge.
Analyse Critically
Working as a police constable involves large amount of critical analysis. You’ll be
presented with a wide variety of data, and will need to use all of this data to come to
informed decisions. This is essentially what ‘taking an evidence-based approach’ means.
It’s about using the evidence available to you effectively and efficiently, to gather as many
facts and hard info as possible, before using this data in the most logical way.
Candidates must exhibit qualities such as:
• Understanding the importance of critical thinking, analysis and careful consideration
before making decisions.
• Assessing and analysing information in an efficient and accurate manner.
• Solving problems by using logic and sound reasoning.
• Balancing the advantages and disadvantages of actions, before taking them.
• Recognising and pointing out flaws in data or information.
• Taking information from a wide range of sources into consideration, before making
decisions.
• Understanding the long-term consequences of potential actions.
• Recognising when the right time to take action is, and understanding how to limit the
risks involved in said action.
• Encouraging others to make decisions in line with the police code of ethics.
• Balancing out the risks and benefits of all decisions, with consideration on the wider
impact of said decisions.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 11 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
• Understanding when it’s appropriate to raise concerns or challenge decisions made by
those in a senior position to them.
• Using their knowledge of wider policing to inform their decisions.
• Being willing to make difficult decisions, even if these decisions could result in significant
change.
Innovative and Open Minded
The final competency challenges the mindset of the candidate. It’s extremely important
that you can take an open-minded approach to police work. Not everything is
straightforward and ‘by the book’. There will always be problems which require an
innovative and creative solution, and it’s your job to come up with this solution!
Furthermore, it’s essential that you can take an open mind to new ways of working, and
understand that continuous development is a necessity for any police constable.
Candidates must exhibit qualities such as:
• Being open to new perspectives, ideas and perceptions.
• Sharing ideas and suggestions with colleagues, with the aim of improving current police
practice.
• Reflecting on their own working practice and how it can be improved.
• Adapting to changing circumstances and needs.
• Using a number of different sources to gain information, using common sense, and not
‘just’ police criteria.
• Identifying potential barriers or problems which could present an obstacle to the way in
which they and their colleagues work in the future.
• Taking a flexible approach to problems, being willing to adapt and change when
necessary.
• Encouraging others to think creatively, and taking risks it is correct to do so.
• Implementing new ways of working, which can have a significant, positive change on
future working practice.
• Encouraging others to review their own performance through the lens of long-term
policing.
• Playing a central role in developing a positive learning culture, taking steps to promote
innovation and creativity.
• Taking part in creating new initiatives, with police partnership agencies.
• Taking accountability for improvement and change within the police force.
Now we have explained what the CVF are and what they mean, this can give you an idea
of the required skills and qualities that are paramount to you being able to pass this
assessment and all other stages of the selection process.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 12 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Before undertaking this assessment, we would recommend you learn all of the
competencies and both sets of values, so they are second nature. This will ensure that
when you take the assessment you will be able to understand clearly which competency
or value each of the statements are relating to and therefore being confident in choosing
the appropriate and correct response. Let us look a little closer at the example question
on page 1 and see if we can identify which competency or value this relates to and then
choose the correct response:
The National SIFT Police Officer Situational Judgement Test instructions
During the early stages of the selection process to become a police officer, due to the
sheer huge number of applications, the police service you are applying to will likely put
you through an early test called a SIFT. The idea of a SIFT is to eliminate any candidates
deemed not suitable for the role of a police officer. This is determined by testing a
candidate's values and beliefs against those deemed necessary to be a competent and
professional police officer. The type of sift exercise you will sit will depend on the force to
which you are applying. There are three choices they can make.
The National SIFT: The national sift is the most widely recognised and used exercise
which the majority of forces in England and Wales undertake. This consists of a
Behavioural Styles Questionnaire and a Situational Judgement Test, which the latter of
this guide focuses on. The Behavioural Questionnaire will ask you 80 questions, which the
exercise is not timed. The idea is to answer a question such as ‘I always try something
new’. Your task is simply to choose whether you agree or disagree with the statement.
The answer choices will be similar to; completely agree, strongly agree, somewhat agree,
neither agree nor disagree, somewhat disagree, strongly disagree or completely disagree.
You need to be mindful that your responses will be compared to the competencies and
values framework. You are unlikely to succeed if your answers do not match the CVF.
The test is based on the premise that candidates already possess the required qualities of
police officers. For example, you cannot teach someone to have integrity. This is a value
which you have or do not have.
The National SIFT SJT uses the CVF similarly, but during this test, you will be presented
with a scenario that may or may not be police related. However, the correct answers will
be based on the required qualities to become a police officer. This test has 15 questions
you will have 30 minutes to complete the test. You will be presented with a scenario, and
you will also see four responses. Unlike the OAC SJT, in this form of SJT, your task is to
rank each answer in a similar format to Efficient, Fairly Efficient, Ineffective or
Counterproductive. It is worth noting that a common misconception is that each answer
represents one answer choice of the scale. It is possible to rank two possible answers as
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 13 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
inefficient, and if you believe that two of the responses are inefficient, you should mark
this as such.
In-force SIFT: If you are to undertake an in-force sift, this will be an exercise, test or
interview chosen specifically by the forces you are applying to. A common example of this
is a telephone interview, which several forces use as a sift.
On the following pages you will find mock Situational Judgement Tests suitable for
candidates taking the National SIFT SJT. We hope you find these tests useful for your
preparation. All the best and good luck with your application to become a police officer!
National SIFT Situational Judgement Test 1
Before undertaking this test, please ensure you have an excellent knowledge of the
competencies and values framework.
You have 30 minutes to answer the 15 questions. Please read the scenario carefully then
rank each possible response Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive.
Please note that each response does not have to be a different ranking. If you believe that
two of the answer choices are counterproductive, please mark them as such.
Q1. The time is 11:30 am. You are a police officer on patrol when you are approached by
a resident complaining about loud music coming from their next-door neighbour’s house.
The resident is upset as he works nights and struggles to sleep with all the noise. He
says, “If you don’t do anything about it, I am going kick the door down and smash up the
music player!” What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Ask your colleague to speak with the neighbour while trying to calm the resident down.
Tell your colleague to demand they turn the music off or be arrested for disturbance
offences.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Speak with the resident, reassuring them that you will speak with his neighbour and
ask them to turn down the music. Advise them that taking matters into their own hands will
only likely escalate the issue and could result in action being taken against them.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Tell the resident that there is not much you can do about it, as it is only 11:30 am, and
that he is not breaking the law. But you will speak to them and threaten further action if
they do not turn the music down.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 14 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Approach the neighbour and explain the situation to them, that their neighbour is
working nights and cannot sleep, and ask them if they could adjust the volume so that the
neighbour can sleep. Return to the location in an hour to check the noise levels.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q2. You are an off-duty police officer, and you are travelling home on a train from a night
out when you notice a distressed passenger shouting at everyone and accusing people of
stealing her mobile phone. The lady approaches you and shouts, "Turn out your pockets.
Someone has stolen my phone!”
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Tell the lady that you have not stolen her phone. Inform her that you are an off-duty
police officer, and if she carries on, you will have her arrested at the next station. You
cannot walk around the train accusing people of stealing without evidence.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Tell the lady that you are an off-duty police officer and will call ahead to get on-duty
police officers to assist her at the next station. Ask the lady to return to her seat until the
officers arrive at the next station so that they can assist her.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Talk to the lady, informing her that you are an off-duty police officer and have not
stolen her phone. Reassure her that you will help her, but she must stop harassing the
other passengers. Calmly ask her about the phone and when she last saw it, and help
search around where she is sitting.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Tell the lady you are an off-duty police officer on a night out and cannot help her.
Advise her to call the British Transport Police so they can assist with searching the
passengers.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 15 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q3. You are a serving police officer who just gave evidence in court on a Friday
afternoon. As you leave court after a long day, you suddenly remember that you failed to
disclose crucial evidence, which could have a large impact on the outcome of the case for
the prosecution. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Immediately call your supervisor to make them aware of your error and advise them
that they should let the prosecution team know your error immediately.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Don’t tell anyone about your error; you are convinced the person is guilty and deserves
punishment for their crime.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Wait until Monday, then return to court and tell the relevant personnel that you made
an error while giving evidence and that it should be admitted as evidence.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Immediately return to the court and inform the relevant personnel of your error and that
it should be admitted as evidence
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q4. You have just moved into a new home. Unfortunately, the previous occupant passed
away due to ill health. When moving some items into a loft with your friend, you notice an
item left by the previous owner, which you are not sure what it is. You show it to your
friend, who recognises it as a rare item worth quite a lot of money. Your friend tells you,
"This item is worth an absolute fortune. You should sell it, as you will make a nice profit
from it”. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Tell your friend that the item is not mine, so you will try to contact the previous owner's
family to return the item to them. Keep the item safe until you can find them.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Tell your friend that the item is not yours, but if he wants it, he can take it and do what
he likes with it.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 16 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Contact the previous owner's family to inform them about the item, and if you do not
hear back, sell the item and donate the profits to charity.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Contact the estate agent, who will have contact details for the previous owner's family
and advise them that you have an item belonging to them and ask them to contact them
so it can be returned to them.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q5. You have received reports from several residents who live near the local park that a
large gang of youths is behaving anti-socially. The residents want something done to
prevent the issue moving forward. You visit the local park and can see a large group of
youths but have yet to see them doing anything wrong.
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Go back to the residents and tell them that you have seen the youths, but they are not
doing anything wrong, so you cannot take any further action. Tell the residents to contact
us again if they see any more incidents.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Approach the group of youths, but stand there monitoring their activity to show them
that you are watching them as a sign of authority.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Approach the group and ask them what they are up to. Be friendly and advise them
that they could do much better things with their time and make some positive suggestions.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Approach the group and ask them what they are up to. Be friendly but advise them that
they need to move along and escort them from the park. Return to the park regularly to
ensure the youths have not returned.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 17 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q6. You are working as a police officer guarding an entrance to a housing estate which
has had an explosion due to a gas leak, one of the properties has been damaged, but
thankfully no one has been hurt. The area has been evacuated, and you are under strict
instructions to only let people pass the cordon if they are emergency services personnel
who are busy making the site safe. You see a car approaching the cordon, and you raise
your hand to stop the vehicle. Once the vehicle comes to a halt, a man steps out of the
car, approaches you & says, “Why can’t I enter the street, I live down here, and I have
forgotten my laptop, which is vital for my work. Please let me through”.
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Explain to the man what has happened, but tell him that due to the danger, we can only
let people past the cordon for safety reasons if they are from the emergency services.
Take his number and tell him that when it is safe to enter, you will let him know so he can
retrieve his laptop.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Find out the man’s address and explain that you will radio a colleague so they can
enter the property, retrieve the laptop, and bring it to the cordon, so the man can head to
work with his laptop.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Tell the man that it is not your fault that he has forgotten his laptop, and for safety
reasons, he will have to wait for news when the street is safe to enter once more. Ask him
to return to his vehicle and move the vehicle away from the cordon.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Radio a colleague to guard the cordon while you escort the man to his home so he can
quickly retrieve the laptop. He can then head to work.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 18 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q7. You are on holiday in the Lake District and are just about to reach the summit of one
of the popular hills in the area when you notice an elderly man who is bent over,
seemingly struggling to breathe. Others are starting to gather in the area. What do you
do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Approach the man to see if he is ok and ask if they need assistance. Tell them that
when you get back down to the bottom of the hill, you will inform the emergency services
so they can come and help him.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Carry on to the peak of the hill. If the man is still there when you are walking down the
hill, as him if he is OK and needs help.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Approach the man, ask if he is ok, and offer your assistance. Advise him that you will
call the emergency services and stay with him until they arrive.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: As several other people gather near the man, assume they will deal with the issue. If
he is still there when you walk back down, offer your assistance.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q8. You are a serving police officer who was called to a home burgled earlier when the
owners were at work. It becomes apparent that the owner left a window open, which the
burglars used to enter the building. There are also no burglary prevention measures in
place. The homeowner is obviously upset by this. You are the first officer on the scene.
What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Ignore the person for now and collect evidence, as the best way to solve the issue is to
find the culprits and return the items back to the rightful owners.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Reassure the owner that you will do everything you can to find the culprit and have all
the stolen items returned. But remind them that if the window was not left open, then the
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 19 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
burglary may not have taken place. Advise them that there are a number of burglary
prevention measures they can implement in the future.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Tell the owner you have called for a colleague to come and speak with them, but you
must start collecting evidence, so you can try and find those responsible.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Reassure the owner that you understand this must be terrible for them, and you will do
what you can to assist them and return their property. Advise them that there are a
number of things they can do to protect their home as a preventative measure in the
future, such as an alarm or camera systems.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q9. You have been giving evidence in court for a case you have been involved with. At
the end of the day, you are leaving court and pass two of your colleagues openly
discussing one of the victims of a case you are working on, in ear-shot of passers-by.
What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Do nothing. No one else around the area can hear their conversation, so no real harm
is done.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Carry on walking out of court, but take note of who the colleagues are. When you see
them in the morning, remind them of their duty to respect case confidentiality.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Immediately approach your colleagues and tell them to stop discussing the case and
the victim. Remind them of their responsibility to case confidentiality.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Approach your colleagues and join in the conversation. They may have information
which can assist you in your case.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 20 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q10. You have been called to a disturbance between two neighbours. One of the involved
is accusing the other of constantly parking in front of the other’s driveway, which prevents
him from leaving for work in the morning. After speaking to your sergeant, he informs you
that one of the neighbours tried to attack the other, but no one was hurt. The recipient
called the police. You arrive at the address, and one of the neighbours comes out of his
house and says: “This moron keeps parking in front of my drive, and I have had enough! I
have told him a thousand times to stop, but he ignores me. Now he calls the police and
accuses me of hitting him, which I have not!” How do you handle this situation?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Get the two neighbours together and speak with them at the same time. Explain that
such a trivial matter should not warrant a call to the police. Tell the person to stop parking
their car over the neighbour's drive, and if you are called back, then action will be taken
against both parties.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Speak with both neighbours separately to get each side of the story. Empathise with
the person having their driveway blocked, but warn them of the consequences of taking
the matter into their own hands. Speak with the other neighbour, and ask them to park
outside their own property. Ask why they park in front of the neighbour’s drive.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Speak with both neighbours separately to get each side of the story. Empathise with
the person having their driveway blocked, but warn them of the consequences of taking
the matter into their own hands. Speak with the other neighbour, and ask them to park
outside their own property. Enquire about the alleged assault and why he parks outside
his neighbour’s drive to help find a solution.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Tell the neighbour blocking the driveway to immediately move their vehicle or risk
being arrested for a breach of the peace. Tell the person who allegedly attacked their
neighbour that if this is found to be the case, they may be arrested and taken to the
station for further questioning.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 21 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q11. You have noticed that a work colleague has started falling behind on their part of the
project. Other colleagues are becoming impatient with them and have threatened to
inform the team manager about the issue. The work colleague usually performs to a high
standard. How would you handle the situation?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Approach your work colleague and tell them their performance is unacceptable and
they need to improve immediately for the sake of the team and project.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Approach your work colleague in private and ask if they are having any issues which
could be affecting their performance. Offer them help and support if required to get them
back on track. Explain that everyone needs to pull together for the sake of the team and
complete their tasks on time and to the required standard.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Inform your manager of the issue and let them deal with it. You are not paid to speak to
your work colleague about their performance.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Work extra hours to complete your work and then do your colleague’s work until they
return to their usual high standards. You are all a part of a team, and you should help the
team out by covering when needed.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q12. A motorway has been closed because a motorcyclist was knocked over and
seriously injured. Your sergeant has asked you only to allow emergency vehicles onto the
motorway access route. Whilst standing at the access route, an angry lorry driver pulls up
and informs you that he must get onto the motorway as he has a very important delivery
to drop off at his destination. If he is late, he will lose his job. What do you do in this
circumstance?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Listen empathetically to the driver and apologise for the inconvenience, but explain
there is nothing you can do. Offer to speak to the driver’s boss on the phone and explain
the situation to avoid the driver losing his job. Direct the lorry driver to the diversion route.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 22 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Tell the driver you will let him through, but stick to the inside lane. Inform the recovery
team of the approaching lorry.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Tell the driver the motorway has been shut for some time. If he had checked his sat-
nav, he would know about the diversion and have been able to avoid delays. Direct him to
the diversion route.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Tell the driver that you are very sorry. But there is nothing further you can do to help
him. Instruct him to use the diversion.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q13. You have been called to a disturbance with your colleague outside a pub in the local
town. When you arrive, there are two men, Ali and Lukas, who have had a scuffle,
resulting in Ali receiving numerous cuts to the face. You are about to speak to Lukas
when Ali starts shouting abuse at Lukas. What do you do?
A: Ask your colleague to restrain Ali and place him under arrest, and call for a vehicle to
take him to the station.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Turn to Ali and tell him that you will speak to him after you finish with Lukas. Ask your
colleague to move Ali away from the area.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Arrest Lukas for his damage to Ali’s face.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Start shouting at Ali. Tell him that you will arrest him for affray if he does not stop
interrupting.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 23 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q14. You have been called to the local shopping centre as a shop owner has caught a
member of the public shoplifting, but they are denying it and say they have done nothing
wrong. After speaking to the shop owner, he says: “We noticed the person acting
suspiciously in the store via the CCTV, so I kept an eye on them. They must have noticed
that I had clocked what they were doing as they left the shop, and when they see me
approaching them, they came back in and put the items onto one of the racks and
attempted to leave the shop again”. I have lost so much money lately through shoplifting, I
will not stand for it anymore! I want you to prosecute them.” How do you tackle this
situation?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Take the suspect to one side, and tell them that unless they can convince you they did
not intend to leave the store without paying for the goods, they will be charged with
shoplifting and taken to the police station for further questions.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. First, take the suspect to one side to understand their side of the story and ask them
what they were doing and why they left the store initially without paying for the goods.
Speak with the store owner to get their side of the story and view the CCTV to understand
the situation further.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Tell the store owner that technically, no crime has been committed as nothing has
been stolen. Therefore, you cannot do much more than warn the suspect about their
conduct.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Speak with the suspect to get their side of the story. Speak to the store owner,
displaying empathy and tell him that no items were actually stolen. You can’t arrest the
suspect. Advise them of the options available for installing anti-theft devices within their
store, which can act as a preventative measure.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 24 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q15. A customer calls you to complain about the service they have received. They are
angry about the situation, and they start shouting at you. How would you deal with this
situation?
A. Tell the customer that unless they stop shouting at you, you will not be able to resolve
their issue. You have rights too, and you are not prepared to be spoken to in that manner.
If the customer calms down, you will then deal with their complaint professionally and
efficiently.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Let the customer speak and listen to their concerns. You don’t take what they say
personally. Show empathy for the customer's situation and apologise quickly if the
company is at fault. Tell the customer you completely understand their concerns before
telling them what you are going to do to rectify things for them. Keep the customer
updated with progress and try to learn from the complaint so it does not happen again.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Tell the customer you will pass on their complaint to your supervisor, who will be in
touch as soon as they are available to deal with it. Show empathy towards their situation.
Write down details of the customer's complaint, and their telephone contact number,
before passing on the details to your supervisor to handle.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Tell the customer you will ask your supervisor to contact them as soon as possible.
Write down their number and pass it on to your supervisor so they can deal with it.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 25 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
National SIFT Situational Judgement Test 1 Answers and Explanations
1 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is not a great course of action, as this could escalate the issue, and we
need to find an acceptable solution for both parties.
B. Fairly Efficient. You are addressing the primary concern by asking the neighbour to turn
the music down. You are also correct in advising the complainant that physical activity
may result in action against him.
C. Counterproductive. This is a poor action. Doing nothing will most likely result in an
escalation of the issue. Threatening the other neighbour is likely not to have the desired
effect.
D. Efficient. By advising the neighbour of the sleep issues the loud music is causing is
likely to help in this situation as you are engaging with the neighbours to find a solution for
both parties. Asking the neighbour to turn the music down will help the neighbour sleep
and allow the other neighbour to enjoy their music still.
Q2 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor action which is likely to escalate the situation further.
The lady needs support, not threatened with arrest. Even though you are off-duty, you are
a serving police officer, so you need to approach the situation with professionalism and
consideration for the lady.
B. Fairly efficient. This may help to resolve the issue, but you are not taking ownership of
the situation. Phoning for help at the next station will help the situation, but we do not
know how long the next station is, which could add to the lady's anxiety.
C. Efficient. This is the best response. You are actively engaging with the lady to assist
her with her lost phone. Still, you are also assisting the other passengers by preventing
the lady from confronting any of the other passengers.
D. Counterproductive. This is a poor action. This does nothing to resolve the issue. By
doing nothing, the situation is likely to escalate, as some of the other passengers may
react if confronted and accused of stealing the lady’s phone.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 26 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q3 Answers
A. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response, as you are taking responsibility for
disclosing your error. However, the best response would be to go back into court and
advise the prosecution team of the error, which demonstrates the competency of ‘taking
ownership’.
B. Counterproductive. This is an unacceptable response, by not declaring the evidence
because you believe the accused is guilty shows a complete lack of integrity, probably the
most essential value of a police officer.
C. Inefficient. Waiting until Monday is not an acceptable response. The legal teams need
to be aware of this issue immediately, which could be vital to the case.
D. Efficient. By immediately returning to court, you are demonstrating the competency of
‘taking ownership’ not just for the error but for immediately informing the legal teams of
your error.
Q4 Answers
A. Efficient. This is an appropriate answer, demonstrating good honesty and integrity. The
item is not yours, so you have no claim on it. It should be returned to the family of the
previous owner.
B. Counterproductive. The item is not yours or your friends. The item needs to be returned
to the rightful owner.
C. Inefficient. The item is not yours to sell. You should make every effort to return the item
to the deceased's family.
D. Efficient. This is a good response as this demonstrates an innovative mind by
contacting the estate agent to get the item returned to the family of the deceased. This
also demonstrates integrity by doing the right thing.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 27 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q5 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor response. The community are looking to you to take
ownership of this situation, by telling them that you cannot see them doing anything wrong
is not a solution and could escalate the issue. It would be expected of you to observe the
situation over a period of time and analyse the behaviour to understand if any action is
required.
B. Inefficient. Standing there observing the youths is unlikely to solve the issue long-term.
It is likely to have a detrimental effect on the reputation of the police with the local
community. They may not do anything while you are observing, but wait until you are not
there.
C. Efficient. By engaging with the youths, you are gaining an idea of their interests and be
able to make some positive suggestions on how they find interesting and safe activities
which will benefit them and the wider community. This demonstrates public service, taking
ownership and having an innovative and open mind.
D. Inefficient. Although this would help the residents in the park area, it has the potential
to move the problem to a neighbouring area of the community and therefore does not
solve the issue. You must provide a solution for the residents and youths, as they are all
local community members. Engaging with the youths to find innovative positive solutions
will help prevent this issue and benefit the community as a collective.
Q6 Answers
A. Efficient. Due to the nature of the issue, you cannot allow the man in. By taking his
number and letting him know when the area is safe, you are taking steps to assist him by
keeping the delay as short as possible.
B. Inefficient. This is not an acceptable action. By asking a colleague on the site to
retrieve the laptop, you are putting your colleague in danger and adding time to make the
area safe.
C. Counterproductive. This is not a good action. You must show empathy for the man as
he is stressed that he does not have his laptop. Telling him that it is his fault is
unprofessional and lacks emotional awareness.
D. Counterproductive. By escorting the man onto the site, you are putting yourself and the
man in danger and disobeying direct instructions to let anyone onto the incident site. This
lacks professionalism, integrity and the ability to follow the rules and procedures.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 28 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q7 Answers
A. Inefficient. The man is struggling now. Waiting until you get back down after your walk
shows a lack of consideration for the man’s welfare. By that time, the man’s condition may
have worsened. This demonstrates a lack of public service and professionalism.
B. Counterproductive. This is a poor action. The man needs immediate help, which should
be actioned before his condition worsens. Leaving it until you have finished your walk
represents a significant risk to the man.
C. Efficient. This is an appropriate response. By calling the emergency services, you are
showing collaborative skills. You demonstrate excellent levels of emotional awareness,
care and public service by assisting and staying with the man until the emergency
services arrive.
D. Inefficient. We should not act on assumptions. Although there is a crowd gathering, we
do not know if they are assisting the man. At the very least, we must determine if the man
is being cared for. The best way to deal with the scenario is to take ownership of the
situation and call the emergency services while providing care for the man until
emergency services take over.
Q8 Answers
A. Inefficient. Simply ignoring the victim is not acceptable. It is important to collect
evidence, but as the first on the scene, you should be there to assist the victim using the
correct communication, demonstrating empathy and sympathy for what has occurred. The
burglary has already taken place, so you cannot influence that. What you can do is
support the victim.
B. Counterproductive. The answer would be acceptable, apart from the part where the
officer states, ‘If the window was not left open, then the burglary may not have taken
place’. They are probably aware of this, and reminding them of this will likely make them
feel worse. Your main priority at this time is to support the victim.
C. Inefficient. You are the first one at the scene, so you will need to speak with the victim,
support their needs, provide the required levels of public service, and ensure you
communicate with the required levels of empathy.
D. Efficient. This is the most appropriate response. You are speaking with the victim,
demonstrating the required levels of public service. You are also using innovative skills to
recommend items which could be used to prevent the crime from occurring again.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 29 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q9 Answers
A. Counterproductive. Regardless that no one is likely to hear the conversation, the two
officers’ risk a confidentiality breach, which needs to be challenged and stopped
immediately.
B. Fairly efficient. Although you will challenge their behaviour which is the right thing to do,
waiting to the following day is not advisable. This should be challenged immediately.
C. Efficient. This is the most suitable response. Challenging their behaviour immediately
and reminding them of their responsibility to case confidentiality is the correct course of
action.
D. Counterproductive. This is completely irresponsible. By joining in the conversation, you
are escalating the issue and not displaying confidentiality. The value transparency states,
‘I maintain confidentiality appropriately’.
Q10 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor approach. Speaking with both men at the same time
will probably escalate the issue further, as they would likely be shouting over each other.
Both parties require an equal opportunity to explain their side of events, and you have a
duty to listen and analyse what you are being told with an open mind. This response is
also aggressive in its approach and disregards the allegation of assault made. Telling
both men that further action will be taken if you have to return will negatively impact the
force’s reputation in the community and will not resolve any of their concerns.
B. Inefficient. Speaking with both neighbours separately gives them the opportunity to
explain their side of events and will give you a full picture of what has occurred. Warning
the man of the consequences of taking action into his own hands should serve as a
warning for future conduct. However, the alleged assault has already occurred and needs
to be addressed. When speaking with the other neighbour, you ask them the reasons why
they park in front of their neighbour’s house so that you can analyse and understand the
bigger picture. However, again this answer disregards the alleged assault, which, as a
service to both neighbours and to ensure impartiality, the assault must be fully
investigated.
C. Efficient. This is the best response. Speaking with both neighbours separately gives
them the opportunity to explain their side of events and will give you a full picture of what
has occurred. Warning the man of the consequences of taking action into his own hands
should serve as a warning for future conduct. You have also indicated that you will be
looking into the alleged assault, which is the correct course of action. When speaking with
the other neighbour, you ask them to park outside their own property and analyse the
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 30 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
reasons why they park in front of their neighbour’s house. This will help you to understand
the bigger picture. Asking the man about the alleged assault will also indicate what further
action may be required.
D. Fairly efficient. Although this solves the problem initially, it does not seek to understand
what led to the issue and if it will be prevented. You need to analyse the reasons behind
what has happened to gain a better understanding of the issue. You can then recommend
countermeasures to prevent this from occurring again.
Q11 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor action. This is likely to make matters worse. You
should be offering your support to your colleague to see if there are any underlying issues
which are affecting their performance, so you can help them get back on track. This forms
part of the competency ‘we are collaborative’ and ‘we deliver, support and inspire’.
B. Efficient. This is an acceptable response. You are seeking to understand if any issues
could be affecting their performance. Offering them help and support will assist them in
getting back on track and finishing the project on time. This demonstrates taking
ownership, we are collaborative, and we deliver, support and inspire.
C. Fairly efficient. This could solve the issue. However, you could also help solve the
issue by finding out if any issues are affecting your colleague’s performance and offering
them support.
D. Inefficient. Although this seems like a viable action, it does not seek to identify and
understand the root cause of the problem. By doing the work for your colleague, you are
just smoothing over the cracks, which will likely be repeated.
Q12 Answers
A. Efficient. This is the best answer from the choices available. You are showing
emotional awareness by listening to the driver's concerns and demonstrating empathy for
his issue. By offering to speak to the driver’s manager to explain the situation, you are
using innovative thinking to help solve the driver's concerns.
B. Counterproductive. This is an unacceptable, reckless action that does not follow direct
instructions and safety procedures.
C. Inefficient. This is a poor action and is likely to anger the driver further. Telling him that
he should have checked his sat-nav is slightly confrontational and not required. You
should be focussing on explaining to the driver why he cannot access the motorway.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 31 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
D. Fairly efficient. This is an acceptable option. However, this does lack any empathy for
the man possibly losing his job if the delivery is late.
13 Answers
A. Inefficient. This action is not appropriate, Ali was shouting at Lukas and did not
physically attack him. Your colleague would be better placed to take Ali to one side to try
and diffuse the situation.
B. Efficient. This is the best response. You need to advise Ali that he will get his chance to
voice his opinion once you have finished with Lukas. Moving Ali away from the scene is
correct to avoid escalating the issue.
C. Inefficient. You need to ascertain what happened before arresting Lukas. To simply
arrest someone before ascertaining the facts would be excessive.
D. Counterproductive. This is a poor action and one which would escalate the problem.
Raising your voice demonstrates a lack of emotional awareness and self-control.
Q14. Answers
A. Inefficient. This is a poor action. Although you allow the person to plead their
innocence, you need to analyse all the information available before making a decision.
You need to speak with the store owner and view the CCTV evidence available.
B. Efficient. This is the most appropriate response. By speaking with both parties, you are
getting an understanding of the complete picture. Viewing and analysing the CCTV will
enable you to make a more informed decision based on the evidence provided by the
CCTV.
C. Counterproductive. You should not make this decision without analysing the CCTV and
speaking with both parties. This could also escalate the issue further, as the suspected
shoplifter could engage in further incidents at other stores. The store owner would most
certainly be disappointed with this action.
D. Fairly efficient. This is an acceptable response based on the fact that nothing was
actually stolen. You cannot make an informed decision as you cannot establish if the
customer intended to steal the items. By speaking with the store owner with empathy, you
display emotional awareness and understanding of their concerns. By recommending
anti-theft products, you are demonstrating an innovative mind and public service to assist
the store-owner to be able in safeguarding against further incidents of shoplifting.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 32 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q15 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is not the best response, as it is slightly confrontational, which needs to
be avoided, but you are explaining that to help the customer, you will need them first to
stop shouting at you so you can resolve their concerns.
B. Efficient. This is an appropriate response. The most important thing to do is to remain
calm under pressure and listen to the customers demonstrating emotional awareness and
effective communication skills. Telling the customer what you are going to do to rectify the
issue demonstrates problem-solving and taking ownership of the issue.
C. Inefficient. The customer is clearly upset by this concern, and needs to be addressed
immediately. By delaying the resolution, and passing the problem over to your supervisor,
demonstrates a lack of taking ownership and could escalate the customer’s anger.
D. Counterproductive. This does nothing to resolve the customer’s concern. It will likely
escalate the problem. You need to take ownership of the problem, demonstrate emotional
awareness, and adjust your communication to resolve the issue.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 33 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
National Sift Situational Judgement Test 2
Before undertaking this test, please ensure you have an excellent knowledge of the
competencies and values framework.
You have 30 minutes to answer the 15 questions. Please read the scenario carefully, then
rank each possible response Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive.
Please note that each response does not have to be a different ranking. If you believe that
two of the answer choices are counterproductive, please mark them as such.
Q16. You are a police officer, and you have been called to a local road where there have
been some previous complaints of people driving high-performance cars at excessive
speeds down a residential street. Because of this, CCTV was placed along the street.
From what you have been told, one of the racers has crashed into a lamppost, and
around ten angry neighbours have surrounded and are shouting at the person. Another
member of the community has called an ambulance, and they are on the way. You and a
colleague arrive at the scene, and you can see that the suspected racer is being
threatened and verbally abused by the residents. How do you initially deal with this
situation?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Push your way through the crowd to get to the suspected racer and pull them to safety.
Tell your colleague to call for backup and start arresting the residents for assault. Arrest
the suspect for dangerous driving and take them down to the station for further
questioning.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Due to the size of the group, radio for assistance. Approach the group with your
colleague and calmly ask the group to disperse. Tell the residents that you will endeavour
to solve this issue, but the aggressive behaviour needs to stop immediately to allow you to
do your job properly and resolve the issue.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 34 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
C. With your colleague, start pulling the residents away from the suspect and handcuff
them for their safety and the safety of the suspect. Once this has been completed, take
the suspect into custody for further questioning. When back at the station, view the CCTV
to understand better what has occurred.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Call for immediate assistance and hold back until they arrive. You have to ensure the
safety of yourself and your colleague before engaging in the situation. Once the extra
officers arrive, move in, disperse the angry residents, and arrest the suspect.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q17. Whilst working as a probationary police officer, you are sitting in the canteen having
a conversation with three of your colleagues. Two of the colleagues are mocking your
other colleague due to an issue he had with the last training exercise, which resulted in
poor performance. Upon hearing the criticism, your colleague looks visibly upset, stands
up, and leaves the canteen. Your other two colleagues remain at the table and laugh out
loud. How do you handle this situation?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Tell your colleagues that their behaviour is unacceptable. We should be helping our
colleague, not mocking him. Then leave the canteen and follow your colleague, ask if they
are ok and offer assistance to help them.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Carry on with your break. Afterwards, seek out your colleague and ask them if they are
ok, and offer to help them if they are struggling with any training.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Start laughing also. This is only banter and is part of being a police officer. It’s
important to embrace banter and get on with the majority. Your colleague will get used to
it and learn to be less sensitive.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Inform your manager of the behaviour of your two fellow colleagues and let the senior
officers deal with any disciplinary action.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 35 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q18. You are a serving police officer, and you are walking through the training centre
when you notice a new probationary officer whom you think you know from your past. You
are very surprised to see them, as you know that they were previously convicted around
five years ago of a major offence, but you are unable to recall what it was. How do you
handle this?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Approach the new officer and ask them how they managed to get in? As you are aware
of their history. Tell them you will be keeping an eye on them in case they step out of line.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Do nothing. They must have passed the vetting. Otherwise, they would not have gotten
through. Everyone deserves a second chance.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Approach your senior officer and tell them what you suspect about the person. Tell
them you are not 100%, but the vetting team should look into it further.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Declare your knowledge of this person to the vetting team to ensure that further vetting
checks can be undertaken immediately.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 36 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q19. You have just finished your probationary period as a constable and applied for a
specialist role. Unfortunately, you were unsuccessful in your application. When you asked
for feedback, the department head stated that you required further development in key
areas required to do the role competently. You are disappointed, especially as the person
who got the job you were nowhere near as strong a candidate as you. How do you react?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Ask to speak with the hiring manager and ask for clarification on their feedback. State
that you really want to work in the department and will embrace the feedback and
endeavour to improve, to give you a better chance when vacancies arise again.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Ask to speak with the hiring manager. Tell them you think you are the better candidate,
and list the reasons why you think you are more suitable than the candidate who has
been chosen.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Go above the hiring manager and complain about the decision to their superior. Tell
them you are by far the better candidate and can’t think of any valid reason why you
wouldn’t have been given the job.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Accept the decision and move on. Use the feedback given to improve your weaker
areas to make yourself a stronger candidate.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 37 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q20. You are Andrew, and you work for an organisation that supplies components to the
building industry. You have been called to a meeting as the company has recently been
taken over by a larger organisation which will make several changes to help secure the
future of the business. On the way to the meeting, you are chatting to several colleagues,
who say:
Sandra: “I have it under good authority that they intend to change people’s roles and
delegate tasks differently, which is going to be a right pain! Why can’t we stay as we are?
We had record sales last year!”.
Tony: “You are kidding! Don’t I do enough already? I am not happy about this, and I will
make my feelings heard. What do you think, Andrew?” How do you respond?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: “Totally agree with you. If we had record sales last year, why would we change
anything? If it isn’t broken, why try to fix it!”
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: “I won’t be happy with any changes, but there is not a lot we can do about it. We will
have to accept the changes and move on”.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: “I think we need to keep an open mind. Even though we had record sales last year, the
owners may have recognised that a change could make the organisation stronger”.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: “I think we have a duty to listen to them. We can always challenge the idea if we are
unsure about something, but if they decide on the necessary changes, we should give it a
go.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 38 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q21. You have received a complaint from a local shop owner complaining about the
actions of a preacher outside his shop. The council allows for individuals to canvass along
the high street, but it must not affect any business or individual. The store owner is
complaining that the preacher’s presence is affecting his business, as since the preacher
has been there for the last two weeks, trade has dropped by over 40%. The store owner is
also religious but finds the preacher's faith highly offensive and wonders whether he is
purposely targeted. You have visited the store owner, and he says, “Get this mad
preacher away from the store and ban him from the high street! This is affecting my trade,
and I find his faith completely offensive and inappropriate”.
How do you handle this situation?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. As per the council policy, tell the store owner that any canvassing affecting other
businesses can be asked to move. You tell the store owner that based on this, you will
speak with the preacher to help find a more appropriate place for them to canvass, which
does not affect the stores' trade. You also tell him that you will not be able to ban him from
the high street, as he has a right to canvass his religious beliefs regardless of them being
different to others, as long as they are not hateful and within the remit of the law.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. After briefly speaking to the store owner, leave the shop, approach the preacher, and
stop canvassing. Explain to the preacher that due to the religious beliefs of the store
owner and that their trade is suffering, they will have to find a different place to canvass.
Tell the preacher that if he refuses, you will have the council ban him from canvassing
along the high street altogether. Question him on the motivations for canvassing outside
this specific store to see if this is based on religious differences.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Tell the store owner that this is a matter for the council really and that they should
contact them to see what can be done. As a police officer, you should not have to deal
with such trivial and petty matters. Inform the shop owner that he should not contact the
police about this again. Warn the shop owner that he may be prosecuted for wasting
police time if they complain again.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 39 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
D. Approach the preacher and explain the situation. Tell them that their activity is having a
negative effect on the stores' sales, and as per the council policy, we will need to find a
different and more suitable location for them to canvass their beliefs. Help the preacher to
find a more suitable location. Once this has been sorted, approach the store owner and
tell them what is going to happen.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q22. You are working on a case that has been going on for several months. You finally
have someone in custody for a string of burglaries. One afternoon while gathering
evidence at a burglary location, you notice a member of the crime scene team seemingly
planting evidence. You immediately challenge your colleague, and they state, “You don’t
want this scum to walk free, do you? We all know it’s him. This will ensure they get the
time they deserve!” You are also under the belief that you have the right person in
custody. How do you react?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Say nothing. Walk away and gather your thoughts. When you are back at the station,
consult with other colleagues to see what they think, then make a decision.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Tell your colleague to remove the planted evidence immediately. Tell them that it is not
acceptable behaviour. Advise them that you will inform your sergeant if they see any
further occurrences.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Take your colleague outside and tell them that they cannot do this and that it is
completely unacceptable regardless of their beliefs. Tell them to return to the station. Go
back to the crime scene and remove the planted evidence. When back at the station,
inform your sergeant.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Immediately Inform your sergeant of what has occurred and demand that your
colleague leave the crime scene and return to the station for the appropriate action to be
taken. Using the correct procedures, take steps to remove the fabricated evidence from
the crime scene.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 40 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q23. You are on patrol with a colleague in the local high street. When your colleague
approaches a passer-by and starts to berate the person for dropping litter. Shaken up, the
passer-by picks up the litter and swiftly moves on. You don’t recall the person dropping
the litter, but you could have missed the incident and think no more of it. Later, during the
shift, you notice your colleague has a wry smile on their face. When you ask them what
they are smiling about, they inform you that the person did not drop litter. The passer-by
was a person who used to bully your colleague, and they decided to have a little payback
for the suffering they caused them when they were at school together. What do you say to
your colleague?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Do not say anything to your colleague. Wait until you return to the station and inform
your sergeant of the inappropriate behaviour.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Tell your colleague that the behaviour is unacceptable and an abuse of power. Tell
them that it should cease immediately. Inform your sergeant of the incident ASAP.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Sympathise with your colleague for the abuse they received, but tell them their
behaviour was equally unacceptable. Tell them that if it happens again, you will inform the
sergeant.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Tell your colleague that you thought the passer-by hadn’t dropped any litter. Explain to
them that you disagree with what they have done but are no fan of bullies, so the passer-
by probably deserved it.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 41 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q24. You are working within a team that has a project focused on creating detailed
reports for the management team. The project seems to be going well and to schedule.
You are nearing the end of a project meeting, and the program manager calls you into her
office. She informs you that your last couple of reports have not been detailed enough and
do not include all the required data. How do you react?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Apologise for the errors. Ask your manager why she hasn’t brought this to your
attention before. If you had known, you would have ensured the reports were correct. Ask
her for specific details of what data is missing.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Tell your manager that you were only following her brief; if this is incorrect, you should
have been notified earlier. Tell her that you will do the reports again.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Apologise to the manager for the missing data, but welcome her feedback. Ask for
details of what data she wants specifically included and provide assurance that it will be
included moving forward.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Thank the manager for letting you know. Ask if you can be removed from the project
team as you do not think there is anything wrong with your work and do not feel you can
give 100% to the project based on her feedback.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 42 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q25. You are a police officer on duty in the front office dealing with queries from members
of the public. One morning a lady walks into the front office, she seems quite uneasy on
her feet, and you wonder if she is drunk. The lady approaches the desk, and you can
clearly smell alcohol on her breath, but you also can see some cuts and bruises above
both eyes. The lady speaks, but you are unable to understand what she is saying. You
recognise that she is speaking Spanish. You do have a colleague who speaks the same
language, but they are currently in an interview with a suspect and cannot be disturbed.
What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Ask the lady if she can speak in English, as you do not understand Spanish. Tell them
that you have a colleague who speaks Spanish, but they will not be available until later. If
they can come back in the afternoon, they will be able to help them.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Attempt to communicate that your colleague who speaks Spanish will be able to help
them, but they will have to wait until they have finished their interview. Make them
comfortable in a waiting room so the lady has some water and coffee to help them sober
up.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Call a member of the station's medical team as you are concerned about the wellbeing
of the lady in regards to her cuts and bruises and get them to give her a check-up.
Attempt to find another colleague who can speak Spanish to understand the ladies’ issue.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Ask the lady to go home and return when she is sober. Communicate with her as best
you can to advise that when she returns, brings someone who can speak English, as this
will help to navigate the communication problems.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 43 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q26. You are a well-respected community police officer and have arranged an event to
offer crime prevention advice to several retail businesses within your community. This is
part of an operation to help tackle rising retail theft in your local community. Community
participation has been overwhelming, and businesses are looking to you to deliver on your
pledge to work with them to help reduce crimes. About a week before the event, you
realise that you are booked on a family UK holiday, which the first day coincides with the
crime prevention event you are hosting. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Fully brief your colleague on the content for the event and ask them to run it in your
absence.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Contact all of the attendees to see if you can re-arrange the date which falls outside the
dates of your holiday.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Re-arrange your family holiday to a date which does not affect your running of the
event.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Run the meeting as scheduled and go on your family holiday when you have finished.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 44 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q27. You are an off-duty police officer. It is your birthday, and you have invited some
friends to your house for a family BBQ. You had made all of your neighbours aware by
telephoning them on their mobile phones in the week and told them the time you were
starting the BBQ to avoid them having their clothes on the washing line when you start to
cook the BBQ. On the day you are about to start the BBQ, notice that one of your
neighbours has left their washing on the line. You go around and knock on the door, but it
would seem that no one is home. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Postpone starting the BBQ until your neighbour returns. Once they are back, go around
and tell them that you are starting your BBQ and that they may want to take their washing
indoors because of the smoke.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Do nothing and light the BBQ as planned. You had already spoken to the neighbours
earlier in the week, advising them what you were doing and the time you were starting. It
is not your fault that your neighbour has forgotten and not taken their washing in.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. If possible, enter your neighbour's garden and take their washing off the line. Place it in
a washing basket and take it to your home, and place it inside to avoid the clothes being
contaminated with smoke. Then start your BBQ as planned.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Telephone your neighbour on their mobile and remind them you are having a BBQ. Ask
when they are back, and if soon, can they take the washing in to avoid smoke
contamination and delay the start. If they are not going to be home for a while, offer to
take their washing in for them.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 45 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q28. You are working at a factory manufacturing various electrical components. You are
aware that two of your colleagues, Jayne and Osman, always seem to exceed the hourly
target, and you always equal the hourly target. What would you do in this situation?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Don’t do anything. You always meet the hourly target set by your superiors, so no
further action should be required.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Speak to your colleagues and inform them that they exceed the hourly target. Ask them
to slow down.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Approach your colleagues and ask them to share their techniques to help you improve
your performance.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: See if there are any areas of the process you can skip to match or better your
colleagues’ performances.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 46 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q29. You are a probationary police officer training on a new information system you are
struggling to understand. You have missed a couple of training sessions due to being off
sick for the last week. One of your colleagues, Vicky, is more experienced in the system,
but you can see that they are very busy. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Carry on trying to work out the new system yourself, as you will get there in the end.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Approach your supervisor and ask if you can be reassigned to a different task as you
are unfamiliar with the system.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Approach Vicky and ask if she has any time to train you in the new system.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Approach your supervisor and ask if you can get more training on the system, as you
missed the previous sessions.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 47 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q30. You are a police officer tasked with policing a major 3-day sporting event. You have
received intelligence that a number of people are trying to enter the venue with fake
tickets, so you are patrolling the ticket gate entrances and assisting the staff in checking
tickets. You overhear an argument between a steward and a visitor at one of the ticket
gate entrances. To assist you, move to the location and ask the steward what the problem
is. The steward states, “This family of three have turned up with tickets which, although
genuine, is not for today’s events, but for tomorrow. I did try to see if any tickets were
available for today’s events, but all seats sold out to maximum capacity. Once I told them
this, they started acting aggressively and started shouting at me. I can understand their
frustration as they have travelled 200 miles, but what can I do?”. How do you handle the
situation?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Tell the steward that he should let the people in, as they have travelled such a long
way, and you can understand why they are upset.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Approach the ticket holders, and show sympathy for their predicament. Tell them that
you can understand their frustration, but they can’t blame the steward for their error.
Regrettably, you cannot allow them to attend as they have the wrong tickets. Suggest that
they could book a local hotel for the night and attend the event as scheduled tomorrow to
save them a wasted journey.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Approach the family, and demand that they cease any aggressive behaviour and lower
their tone. Advise them that they should have checked their tickets and turned up on the
right date. Tell them they only have themselves to blame and turn them away. Tell them to
return tomorrow with their tickets, and they will be admitted into the venue.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Approach the family and escort them away from the ticket area. Tell them it is their
responsibility to turn up on the correct day of the ticket. Tell them that regardless of how
far they have travelled, they will have to return tomorrow. Apologetically you tell them that,
unfortunately, there is nothing more you can do.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 48 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
National SIFT Situational Judgement Test 2 Answers & Explanations
Q16 Answers
A. Inefficient. This response would be acceptable if you did not start arresting the group
surrounding the driver or the driver. Before making any decisions in regard to the arrest of
anyone, you will need to analyse any evidence available to you, such as witness
statements and CCTV.
B. Efficient. This is an effective initial response. It serves to address the concerns of the
residents and protects the driver from coming to any harm. By calling for assistance, you
are analysing the risk due to the number of participants involved in the incident
C. Counterproductive. This is likely to anger the residents and should be avoided. Placing
the residents in handcuffs is an overzealous action and is unnecessary. You should take
ownership of the situation, engage with the residents, and ensure the driver's safety.
D. Inefficient. As a police officer, the value of public service states that you must act in the
interest of the public first and foremost. Waiting for assistance does represent a risk to the
driver and residents if the issue does escalate, so you should take immediate action to
isolate the driver from the residents.
Q17 Answers
A. Efficient. This is a good response which demonstrates integrity by challenging the
behaviour of your colleagues. Following your colleague and asking if they are ok and
offering them your support demonstrates emotional awareness and taking ownership.
B. Inefficient. Part of this response is good, especially where you ask if your colleague
requires help with their training, but it lacks integrity as your two colleagues' behaviour
should be challenged. Integrity is probably the most important value that a police officer
must always demonstrate.
C. Counterproductive. This is a poor action that lacks integrity. The banter on this
occasion has visibly upset your colleague and could be viewed as bullying and needs to
be challenged.
D. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response; however, you should also challenge
the inappropriate behaviour directly with the two officers responsible.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 49 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q18 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor response. The scenario states that you think you
know them from your past. To approach and accuse them without evidence is an
assumption and must be avoided. Police officers make decisions based on evidence and
by analysing data and information presented to them.
B. Ineffective. You should act on what you believe and check with the vetting team to
ensure this was carried to the correct procedure. If it turns out to be not whom you
thought, then this will cause no harm.
C. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response. However, taking ownership of the
situation and contacting the vetting team to double-check the new officer would be more
efficient. Contacting your supervisor and asking them to contact the vetting team would
delay any resolution if required.
D. Efficient. By declaring your knowledge of the person directly to the vetting team, you
are taking ownership of the situation, saving time and allowing further vetting to occur.
Q19 Answers
A. Efficient. This is a good answer. By speaking to the hiring manager, you are seeking
further clarification in regard to the feedback. This will assist you in improving and
developing the required skills required for the role. This indicates that you take ownership
of your development to ensure you have a better chance of success when there are
further vacancies. This also demonstrates personal responsibility, which is part of the
value ‘we deliver, support and inspire’.
B. Inefficient. This is a poor response. Although you may be disappointed, you must
accept the decision, take on-board the feedback and develop your skills to improve your
chances moving forward. This response shows that you do not respond well to critical
feedback. It is a vital trait of a police officer to be able to embrace feedback and develop
skills based on it.
C. Counterproductive. This is an extremely poor response and is likely to have a negative
impact on your career. Police officers need to be able to embrace feedback and support
colleagues. This goes against both ‘we take ownership’, ‘we deliver, support and inspire’
and impartiality.
D. Fairly Efficient. This is a good response. By embracing the feedback, you are taking
ownership of your professional development. This indicates that you take ownership of
your development to ensure you have a better chance of success when there are further
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 50 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
vacancies This also demonstrates personal responsibility, which is part of the competency
‘we support and inspire’.
Q20 Answers
A. Counterproductive. Police Officers must be able to recognise the need for change and
embrace it. We live in a world which is constantly changing, and as a service, the police
must be able to adapt to ensure its services reflect the needs of the community.
B. Inefficient. Although you are accepting of change, you are not happy with it. You need
to be able to understand the need for the changes and welcome these moving forward.
You need to have an open mind regarding change and recognise that if it benefits the
community, it is a good thing.
C. Efficient. This is the best response. We should keep an open mind when adapting to
change if it benefits the community as a whole, it is a good thing.
D. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response. Although you are not completely
embracing the change, you are keeping an open mind, but you are also demonstrating
‘we analyse critically’ by possibly challenging the change if you are unsure of something
related to the change.
Q21 Answers
A. Efficient. This is a good response. As a police officer, you need to take into account the
needs of both the store owner and the preacher and find a solution for both parties. This
response shows innovation and demonstrates impartiality and public service.
B. Inefficient. This is a poor response. You are not doing anything to assist the preacher,
demonstrating a complete lack of impartiality. The preacher and store owner need to be
treated with respect, and you should attempt to find a solution that suits both parties.
C. Counterproductive. This is a poor response. Telling the store owner that this is a matter
for the council demonstrates zero public service and taking ownership. Even if this is a
matter for the council, you should assist the store owner to make contact with the council
to ensure the matter is dealt with sufficiently and to the satisfaction of both the store
owner and the preacher.
D. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response and would solve the issue. The only
downside as it does little to address the comments of the store owner in regard to his
comments regarding the preacher’s religious beliefs.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 51 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q22 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is not an acceptable response. No thinking should be required.
The actions of your colleague are not only a blatant abuse of their powers but completely
go against all of the values of a police officer and have to be not only challenged but
action should be taken against the officer.
B. Inefficient. This is a poor response. The actions of your colleague need addressing
immediately. They need to be removed from the scene and their role. Action will need to
be taken against them. Their actions completely contradict the values and code of ethics
of the police service and its employees.
C. Fairly Efficient. This response is Ok, as you have immediately challenged your
colleague and removed them from the scene, so they cannot contaminate the crime
scene further. This is not the best response, as your supervising officer should be
informed of the incident immediately and not wait until you return to the station.
D. Efficient. This is the best response. You have challenged the colleague’s behaviour
and informed your sergeant immediately so they can take the required action against the
officer. This demonstrates integrity, transparency, impartiality and public service.
Q23 Answers
A. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response, as although you are not directly
challenging your colleague, you are informing your sergeant, who can take the matter
further. A stronger response would be to challenge your colleague’s inappropriate
behaviour and also inform your sergeant of the incident.
B. Efficient. This is the best course of action as you challenge your colleague’s behaviour,
demonstrating integrity. By informing your sergeant of the issue, you are also taking
ownership to ensure this matter is dealt with by your superior, as your colleague blatantly
abused his powers as a police officer.
C. Inefficient. Although this response partially covers the issue by challenging their
behaviour, it does not go far enough. The incident is a misuse of police powers and
should be reported as this completely lacks integrity.
D. Counterproductive. This response is unacceptable. Your lack of action and comments
basically condone the behaviour, demonstrating a complete lack of integrity.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 52 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q24 Answers
A. Fairly Efficient. Although you, maybe slightly confrontational in your approach, this is an
acceptable response. By asking for feedback, you are seeking to ascertain where you
went wrong so you can analyse and ensure the reports are correct in the first instance.
Embracing feedback is a key attribute of any police officer.
B. Inefficient. This is not an ideal response. You are being defensive and questioning your
superior’s feedback. As a police officer, you would receive feedback regularly, and you
would be expected to accept this and implement actions to improve in the relevant areas.
C. Efficient. The only positive answer to this scenario is answer C. By welcoming her
feedback, you have recognised that your standards may have dropped, and you ‘take
ownership’ for this by asking specifically what is missing so you can ensure that it is
included moving forward. This also demonstrates the value of ‘transparency’ as you
recognise the value of the feedback from your manager. All the other options do not take
ownership or demonstrate transparency.
D. Counterproductive. This is not a good response. It is defensive and lacks
professionalism, responsibility, taking ownership of your errors, and embracing feedback
from others. These are all key qualities required of police officers.
Q25 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is not a good response. The lady is in clear need of assistance. You
need to ensure she gets the required assistance regardless of the language barrier. Her
appearing intoxicated and uneasy on her feet makes her more vulnerable.
B. Inefficient. This response is not good enough to solve the issue. It does partly help by
keeping the lady comfortable in a waiting room. However, the lady does need medical
attention as she has a number of cuts and bruises and is uneasy on her feet.
C. Efficient. The correct approach is to arrange for the medical team to take a look at the
lady to ensure she is ok and not injured or at risk. This demonstrates public service and
collaboration. By attempting to find another Spanish speaker, you are attempting to use
problem-solving skills to understand what the lady is trying to communicate to you so that
you can assist her further.
D. Counterproductive. This is a poor action. By telling the lady to go home, you are
showing no consideration for her well-being. This demonstrates a lack of public service as
you are not acting in her best interests. By your actions, you are assuming that her
condition is caused by the appearance of being drunk. The best course of action is to
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 53 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
keep the lady safe and have her medically examined before a member of your team who
speaks Spanish can communicate with her.
Q26 Answers
A. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response. You ensure that the event goes as
planned by training your colleague to deliver the content. This demonstrates collaboration.
B. Counterproductive. This is not a good action. The community are looking for you to
deliver on what you have promised to delay the event may damage your reputation in the
local community, as they are looking to you to help with the issues they are experiencing
due to shoplifting incidents.
C. Fairly Efficient. This is a possible solution but not a necessary one. But it does
demonstrate your commitment to public service and your community.
D. Efficient. This is the best action. By still delivering the event, you are enhancing
yourself and the reputation of the force in the community. This demonstrates public
service. By following through on your promises, you are also taking ownership of the
situation.
Q27. Answers
A. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable action. By postponing the BBQ until your
neighbour returns, you show consideration for them, demonstrating an equivalent of
public service. However, it is only fairly efficient, as you have no idea how long your
neighbours will be, which affects your guests.
B. Counterproductive. This is a poor action which shows no consideration for your
neighbours. You should take steps to contact them to remind them of the BBQ taking
place.
C. Inefficient. If you had the neighbour’s permission, this would work. However, you do not
have permission to enter their property. You should contact them and speak with them
first in regard to this.
D. Efficient. This is the best action, as it provides a solution for your neighbour and allows
you to keep the delay to a minimum.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 54 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q28 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is not a good action. Potential police officers should always analyse
their performance to provide the best service to the public. Police officers should always
implement measures that help to improve the service they offer to the public.
B. Counterproductive. This is a poor action demonstrating a lack of integrity and
professionalism. Police officers should always seek to provide the very best levels of
service and be able to analyse and improve their performance.
C. Efficient. This is a good response. Police officers should actively seek and embrace
feedback to be able to recognise areas to improve their performance and service to the
public.
D. Counterproductive. This is an unacceptable action. You should always follow
procedures and processes. To move away from this in a police officer-related situation
would represent a danger to yourself, your colleagues and the wider community.
Q29 Answers
A. Inefficient. Although, this may be the case. It is not the most efficient way of working.
The competency ‘we are emotionally aware’ states that police officers should know to ask
for help and support when required.
B. Counterproductive. This is a poor response and not one that would be expected of a
police officer. You would simply need to ask for help or further training to bring you up to
speed with the new system. It is also imperative that police officers are able to adapt to
change and learn new skills to improve services to the public.
C. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response. By approaching a colleague, you are
accepting that you understand when you need help and are acting upon it.
D. Efficient. This is the most suitable response, as it addresses the fact that you missed
previous sessions, and the extra training will help you get to grips with the new system.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 55 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q30 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is not a good response. You cannot just simply let them in. This will
send the wrong message. Today’s events are already sold out, meaning that the
maximum capacity would be exceeded if they were allowed entry. This represents a risk
to the community and should be avoided.
B. Efficient. This is an appropriate response. It demonstrates emotional awareness and
empathy for their issue but also supports the steward. By also advising them of local
hotels, you are also using innovation to see if you can assist them further to save them
from travelling 200 miles home again.
C. Counterproductive. This approach is confrontational and should be avoided, as it will
damage the reputation of the police service. It also does nothing to help the family. You
should attempt to empathise with the family and try to solve the problem as best as
possible.
D. Inefficient. Although the initial approach is ok, it still does very little to solve the issue.
You should take steps to help the family, if possible, to make it easier for them to be at
tomorrow’s event.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 56 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
National SIFT Situational Judgement Test 3
Before undertaking this test, please ensure you have an excellent knowledge of the
competencies and values framework.
You have 30 minutes to answer the 15 questions. Please read the scenario carefully, then
rank each possible response Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive.
Please note that each response does not have to be a different ranking. If you believe that
two of the answer choices are counterproductive, please mark them as such.
Q31. You are just returning from patrol on a long 12-hour shift. A call over the radio asks
for the nearest patrol unit to attend to a domestic disturbance within the community. When
you hear the address, you realise that you have already been there three times this
evening. When you get there on each occasion, it turns out to be a false alarm, as it has
been two siblings arguing over a board game and a waste of police resources and time.
You are the nearest patrol car to the address. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Radio in what you know due to the previous call-outs to the address. Proceed back to
the station and let another patrol car deal with the incident, as your shift is ending.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Go to the incident and tell the siblings if they continue to make unnecessary emergency
calls, you will arrest them for wasting police time.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Attend the call, as you are the nearest response unit, and investigate the report of a
domestic disturbance.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Wait briefly to see if anyone else takes the call. If they do not, as you know the
background, attend to the incident.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 57 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q32. You are a traffic officer patrolling one of the local roads when a car passes you,
breaking the speed limit. This prompts you to follow the car and, at the safest opportunity,
instruct the car to pull over. You and your colleague Binda get out of your patrol car and
approach the driver, asking them to get out of their car. When they do, to your surprise,
you notice it is your uncle driving the vehicle. How do you react?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Immediately speak to Binda and tell him that the man present is your uncle.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Tell Binda that you will deal with this and that he can take a break.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Say nothing, let Binda deal with your uncle, and return to your vehicle.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Do not say anything and issue your uncle a fixed speeding penalty.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q33. You are a serving police officer and have been attached to an operational team
close to bringing a national class-a drug network to justice. The operation it is not
common knowledge outside the operational team and is not to be discussed outside of
the team. You are out with a police officer colleague one evening socially, who is not part
of your team, and he asks you about what you are currently working on, as he has not
seen you around the station much lately. What do you say?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Tell your colleague that you shouldn’t really discuss the operation. However, if you feel
he may be able to help with certain aspects of the operation, discuss it with him.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Tell your colleague that you are unable to discuss the operation outside of the team
due to confidentiality issues.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 58 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
C. Tell your colleague that you have not come out to discuss work, as you wish to wind
down and quickly change the subject.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Tell your colleague the type of operation you are working on, just to be polite and tell
him that is all you can say, then change the subject.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q34. You are at the scene of a burglary. The homeowner understandably is very upset
with the outcome. You are looking around for evidence when you overhear a colleague
saying to the homeowner, “You realise that this would not have happened if you had a
burglar alarm and better locks”. How do you react to your colleagues’ comments?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Ignore what he said for now, but when you leave the property, speak with your
colleague and tell him their comments were inappropriate, even though they are most
likely accurate.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Empathise with the homeowner and apologise for your colleagues’ actions. When you
are back at the station, report the incident to your sergeant, and let them deal with it, as
you do not out-rank your colleague.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Go over and tell your colleague to stop being so insensitive. You are sure that the
homeowner does not need reminding of this.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Pull your colleague to one side and tell him the comments are unacceptable. Speak
with the homeowner, showing empathy & compassion. Report your colleague’s behaviour.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 59 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q35. You are a serving PCSO and are on your way back to the station when you pass
your colleague assisting community members. As you are about to walk past your
colleague, Davina, she ushers you over. She asks you whether you could help and assist
an elderly man into a taxi while she deals with a request from a member of the public with
some detailed directions. The taxi is around 10 minutes away. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Tell Davina, the taxi driver to assist the man into the taxi when they arrive. Wave to
Davina and carry on back to the station.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Tell Davina that by the time the taxi arrives, she would have likely finished giving the
person directions and will be able to assist the person into the taxi.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Tell Davina, sure no problem. You will stay with the man until the taxi arrives, as long
as your supervisor allows you.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Tell Davina, sure no problem. You will stay with the man until the taxi arrives and assist
him while she deals with the other query.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q36. You are an experienced police officer. You are patrolling with your colleague
Joanne, who tells you she is becoming disillusioned with life as a police officer. She says
she is thinking of resigning from the role. What do you say to her?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Advise Joanne that this is her decision and you are unable to influence her. If she
wants to resign, you won’t stand in her way.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Tell Joanne she would be crazy to throw away the opportunity that she has worked so
hard for. “Pull yourself together” are your final words on the matter.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 60 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Say nothing. If someone wants to leave, they have their reasons. It is nothing to do
with you and is completely their choice.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Listen to her concerns and offer your support. Make her aware of how the job she does
makes a positive difference to the community and the police service as a whole.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
A. Inefficient. This is not a great response. In this scenario, you should be offering your
support, demonstrating emotional awareness, taking ownership and collaborative skills.
B. Counterproductive. This is a poor action and does nothing to assist and support your
colleague. It is likely to make them feel worse and escalate the problem.
C. Counterproductive. This is a poor action and does nothing to assist and support your
colleague. It is likely to make them feel worse and escalate the problem.
D. Efficient. This is an acceptable response and seeks to help and support Joanne in her
decision.
Q37. You have been working on an important case for the last two weeks. You realise you
have made a significant mistake. Despite your manager giving you a clear brief, you have
not followed it. You have been under pressure recently due to having a large workload.
What would you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Stop work and inform your manager about the mistake. Explain to her why you made a
mistake, apologise, take responsibility for it, and do the extra work to make things right.
Share your mistake with your co-workers so they can learn from it too.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Carry on with your tasks and hope nobody notices the mistake. After all, you have
been under pressure due to the large workload, so mistakes are inevitable. Speak with
your manager to ask for help with your large workload.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 61 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
C. Stop work and inform your manager about the mistake. Tell her you have been feeling
under pressure because of the large workload, and ask her what she wants you to do
next.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Stop working and analyse why you made the mistake. Put in extra hours to rectify the
mistake and learn from it. Nobody needs to know about the mistake because you can still
rectify the issue.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q38. You are a serving police officer, and one morning you received an unknown letter at
the station. You were going to open it during your lunch but forgot, so you opened this
when home. When you opened the letter, you saw that it was from a member of the
community whom you assisted when they were involved in a road accident. There was a
lovely thank you note which praised your actions and efforts to assist her. There was
another folded piece of paper in the envelope, when you unfolded it you could see there
was a cheque written out for £150.00. The lady left the name blank, as they were unsure
of your full name and only knew you by your badge number. The lady also left their
telephone number. How do you react?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Telephone the lady, thank her for the note, and tell her it is nice to be appreciated for
your efforts. Tell her you will love to accept her gift and you will put it towards a family
holiday.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Telephone the lady and thank her for the note. However, advise her that you are only
doing your job, and she does not have to thank you, but you appreciate it anyway. Tell her
that you are unable to accept her gift, but tell her you have a strong connection to Cancer
research, and if she could make a donation to them, it would be appreciated.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Telephone your superior and explain what has happened. Tell him that you are going
to contact the lady and; kindly refuse the offer, and as much as you appreciate the
gesture, it is not required as it is your duty to help members of the community. Kindly
decline the offer of the cheque and destroy it so no one else can use it.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 62 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
D. Do nothing initially. Take the letter and the cheque to the station on your next shift and
speak to your superior about it. Contact the lady from the station and kindly refuse the
offer, but thank her for her kind words and gesture, which, as much as it is appreciated, is
not required as you were only doing your job. Ensure that the cheque is destroyed
securely and witnessed by your superior.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q39. You are working in a pub serving customers. It is coming up to the last orders, and
one of the regulars calls you over and accuses you of taking their drink away from them
while they went to the toilet. You know this is not the case; the person has been in the bar
for several hours and appears very drunk. When the man asks you why you have taken
his drink, you inform him that he already drank it before he went to the toilet. He denies
this and states the following:
Customer: “I did not drink it. Are you calling me a liar?” How do you respond initially?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: “No, sir. But I am surprised that you can remember anything with the amount you have
had!”
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: “Yes, I do believe you are lying. I watched you finish the drink before you went to the
toilet”
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: “No, sir. I am not calling you a liar. I am suggesting you are mistaken. I remember
seeing you finish the drink before you went to the toilet.”
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: “I am not paid to be abused by you. I will get the manager to speak with you regarding
this”.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 63 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q40. You are on duty with a fellow officer and come across a group of young people.
They don’t seem to be doing anything wrong and aren’t causing a nuisance to others in
the area. They’re all wearing hooded jumpers but don’t necessarily come across as
threatening and aren’t causing any trouble. Your fellow officer makes a judgement about
them, telling them to move on. As they hesitate to move, the officer calls them ‘thugs’ and
threatens to arrest them. How do you react?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Intervene in the situation and ask the group to move on to avoid being arrested by your
colleague.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Pull your colleague to one side and challenge them on their behaviour. Remind them of
the standards required of a police officer.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Ignore the behaviour and move on. After all, they do look menacing and are likely to
scare the community.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Challenge your colleague’s behaviour and remind them of the standards required of a
police officer. Report the incident to your superior.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q41. You are attending to an incident in the local park where a man walking his dog
attacked another man, breaking his nose and inflicting multiple cuts and bruises on the
man’s face. After speaking to a number of witnesses, it is apparent that the injured man
attempted to steal the other man’s dog. Eyewitnesses are calling the dog owner a hero for
fighting back.
The dog owner is still very angry, and his rage gets the better of him. He lunges towards
the injured man and pushes over your colleague. Your colleague manages to get to his
feet, and you both manage to restrain the man and place him in handcuffs. You escort the
man to the squad car and sit him in the back seat. Your colleague is dealing with the
injured man. What do you do next?
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 64 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Place the man under immediate arrest for assaulting a police officer. Call for a further
vehicle to come and take the man to the police station for further questioning and to be
charged.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Speak to the man, and tell him to calm down. Make him aware that you know what has
happened and that you don’t blame him for attacking the other man. Tell him that once the
man has been taken away, you will release him with a warning. Advise him that the
suspect of dog theft will also be investigated and charged with theft.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Speak to the man and listen to his concerns. Tell him that although he was protecting
his pet, his actions were unacceptable, and he should not have attacked the man but
called the police. You have no choice but to arrest him for assault of the man and your
colleague. Advise him that the other man will also be investigated in regards to the
attempted theft, but also asked about the assault.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Start berating the man for his actions. Tell him that any further outbursts will end with
him being arrested immediately. Tell him that you understand why he is upset and
sympathise with him. Tell him you will do your best to get him off any charges.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q42. You have been tasked with ensuring that no members of the public cross the
perimeter of an established crime scene. Likewise, the head of the station has asked
officers to refrain from talking to the local media regarding the crime. As you watch, you
notice one of your colleagues conversing with a journalist. You overhear them talking
about the crime. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Take your colleague to one side and remind him of what the head of the station said.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Step in and immediately put a halt to the interview and inform your superior of the
incident.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 65 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Ask the journalist to leave immediately. Tell your colleague that he must not share
information with anyone else. Inform the station head.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Keep listening to the conversation. When you get back to the station, contact your
supervisor and let them know about the incident.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q43. You are a serving police officer, and you have a new computer system which has
recently been implemented. You have been using it for about a week and are finding
certain elements difficult to master. Most of your colleagues do not seem to have much of
an issue with the new software. You work at a very busy station with minimal staff. What
do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Approach your sergeant and ask them if you can continue using the older system as
you struggle to get to grips with the new one.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Carry on trying to learn the new system. You will get there. After all, it can’t be that
difficult as all of your colleagues seem to have mastered it ok.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Speak with your sergeant and be up-front with your issues with the new system. Ask
for extra training on the system to help you adapt.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Ask one of your colleagues to give you some coaching at work to help you master the
elements of the system you are struggling with.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 66 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q44. You are in a briefing in regard to an operation. Joining you are a number of
experienced officers and also an officer joined the team who has recently completed their
probationary period. After the senior officer had finished briefing the team, the new officer
asked a question, which was completely disregarded by the senior officer. His only reply
was, “You youngsters need to keep quiet, and you may learn something. What a daft
question”. You could see that the new officer was visibly disgruntled by the senior officer’s
comments. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Immediately stand up and rebuke the senior officer in front of the rest of the team. Tell
him that the new officer was only asking a question and deserves to be treated with
respect.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. After the briefing, speak with the new officer away from the rest of the team and ask
him how he feels and if he would like to take the matter further. As you think it is wrong
that the senior officer spoke with him in this manner.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Offer support to the new officer and then speak with the senior officer in private and tell
him that you feel that he spoke with the new officer harshly and that he should not have
belittled him in front of the team and should apologise.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Speak with the new officer and tell him not to take the senior officer’s comments to
heart, as he was only messing and often does it with new officers.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q45. There has been a recent increase in anti-social behaviour in a local village. There is
a group of teenagers congregating around the local shopping centre, intimidating the
shoppers, and using foul language, and there has also been a small number of shoplifting
incidents reported. However, there is no solid evidence to go on. Until the last 3-4 weeks,
there have been few or no reports of such incidents, and it seems to have increased
suddenly. How do you react?
Please rank the following four answers:
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 67 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
A. Speak with the parents of the teenagers and remind them of their responsibility to keep
their children under control. Tell them that any further incidents will result in legal action
being taken against their children.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Advise the shopping centre to ban all people under the age of 18 unless they are
accompanied by an adult. This should prevent further occurrences.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Speak directly to the group of teenagers to understand why they are hanging around
the shopping centre. Attempt to engage with them to inspire more healthy and positive
activities.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Before doing anything immediately, attempt to analyse what may be causing these
issues all of a sudden. This will help you to identify the root cause and be able to
implement corrective measures.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 68 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
National SIFT Situational Judgement Test 3 Answers & Explanations
Q31 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is not a correct action. You need to provide a service to the public and
attend the scene. You are assuming that this will be a false alarm. However, the situation
may have escalated, and members of the community may be in danger.
B. Counterproductive. To tell them this without investigating first is a poor decision. You
need to first assess the situation before making any such decision. The situation may
have escalated since the previous call, and it is your duty to investigate.
C. Efficient. This is the most appropriate response. As you are the nearest to the incident,
you need to take ownership of the situation and attend to the disturbance to ascertain
what is happening.
D. Inefficient. This is a poor action. You are the nearest available unit; you need to take
the call. To wait to see if someone else calls it lacks integrity and ownership.
Q32 Answers
A. Efficient. This is the correct course of action, as you are declaring your conflict of
interest immediately once you have realised the man is your uncle.
B. Counterproductive. This answer assumes that you are not going to declare that the
man is your uncle. You must declare this straight away.
C. Counterproductive. This answer assumes that you are not going to declare that the
man is your uncle. You must declare this straight away.
D. Counterproductive. This answer assumes that you are not going to declare that the
man is your uncle. You must declare this straight away.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 69 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q33 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This goes against what you have been told and lacks integrity &
confidentiality.
B. Efficient. This is the best response. You should tell your colleague that you are unable
to discuss operational matters as it is confidential.
C. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response, but your colleague may ask you again
as the evening wears on. You are best off making it clear that you cannot discuss what
you are working on due to confidentiality.
D. Inefficient. This is not a recommended response. Although you are not discussing the
operation detail, you are divulging some information which you should not have.
Q34 Answers
A. Inefficient. Although you are challenging your colleagues’ comments, you are doing
nothing to empathise with the victim of the burglary. The homeowner needs to be your
number one priority.
B. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response, as you are considering the feelings of
the homeowner as a priority. However, you haven’t really challenged the inappropriate
behaviour of your colleague directly, and it does lack ownership by letting your sergeant
deal with the issue without intervention from yourself. You should directly challenge your
colleague’s behaviour and tell your sergeant also.
C. Inefficient. Inefficient. Although you are challenging your colleagues’ comments, you
are doing nothing to empathise with the victim of the burglary. The homeowner needs to
be your number one priority.
D. This is the most suitable response. You are directly challenging the behaviour. By
speaking with the homeowner, you are addressing their concerns by showing empathy
and compassion. By reporting the incident, you also ensure that appropriate action can be
taken.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 70 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q35 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor response which assumes that the taxi driver will
assist. Your job is to serve the public whenever possible. You should wait with the man
until the taxi arrives or your colleague has finished with the other query.
B. Inefficient. This is assuming that Davina will have finished with the other query. This
demonstrates a lack of teamwork and collaboration with your colleague. This needs to be
avoided. You should support your colleague and the man waiting for the taxi.
C. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response. However, unless you are on your way
to something specific, you should not need to contact your supervisor to be able to make
the decision.
D. Efficient. This is the best response. You are demonstrating public service, and we are
collaborative by supporting your colleague and the man waiting for the taxi.
Q36 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is not a great response. In this scenario, you should be offering your
support, demonstrating emotional awareness, taking ownership and collaborative skills.
B. Counterproductive. This is a poor action and does nothing to assist and support your
colleague. It is likely to make them feel worse and escalate the problem.
C. Counterproductive. This is a poor action and does nothing to assist and support your
colleague. It is likely to make them feel worse and escalate the problem.
D. Efficient. This is an acceptable response and seeks to help and support Joanne in her
decision.
Q37 Answers
A. Efficient. This is a good response. You have taken ownership for the error, and you
have undertaken the work to rectify the issue. By sharing your error with your colleagues,
you are attempting to prevent the error from occurring again.
B. Counterproductive. Saying nothing about your error lacks integrity and any level of
taking ownership. Even if this is not noticed, it is likely to have a negative impact as it was
a significant mistake.
C. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable action. You have informed your manager of the
error and have asked them for guidance on what you do to rectify it.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 71 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
D. Inefficient. This is not a good response. Even though you have found the error and
taken responsibility to rectify it, you need to take ownership and admit your error, so this
can be prevented moving on.
Q38 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is an unacceptable action. Police Officers cannot accept gifts
from members of the public under any circumstances. This is against the Code of Ethics
and could lead to being susceptible to bribery.
B. Counterproductive. This is an unacceptable action. Police Officers cannot accept gifts
from members of the public or influence other organisations for financial gain. This is
against the Code of Ethics and could lead to being susceptible to bribery.
C. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response. You are taking steps to ensure you
contact the lady and kindly refuse her gesture, as this goes against the values and the
code of ethics for police officers.
D. Efficient. This is the best option. You are taking steps to ensure you contact the lady
and kindly refuse her gesture, as this goes against the values and the code of ethics for
police officers. By doing this from your station, you are ensuring that a record is kept of
the event and that the cheque can be destroyed in a secure environment and witnessed
by your superior.
Q39 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor action which is likely to escalate the issue further.
You need to use words and actions which aim to de-escalate the situation.
B. Counterproductive. This is a poor action which is likely to escalate the issue further.
You need to use words and actions which aim to de-escalate the situation.
C. Efficient. This is a good initial response. You are trying to engage with the man stating
that he is mistaken and that he did finish the drink before going to the toilet. This approach
aims to de-escalate the issue.
D. Inefficient. This is not the best initial response. You should attempt to engage with the
man first to de-escalate the issue. If this fails, you can then get the manager involved.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 72 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q40 Answers
A. Inefficient. The young people are not doing anything wrong. Your colleague assumes
that they are doing something because of their appearance. This does nothing to embrace
diversity and needs to be avoided.
B. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response as it challenges the officer’s behaviour.
Police officers must embrace diversity, treat everyone fairly, and show respect regardless
of how someone looks. However, this should be taken further, and the officer needs to be
reported for their actions.
C. Counterproductive. This is a poor response. The young people are not doing anything
wrong. Your colleague assumes that they are doing something because of their
appearance. This does nothing to embrace diversity and needs to be avoided. By doing
nothing, you are condoning the actions of your colleague.
D. Efficient. This is a good response as it challenges the officer’s behaviour. Police
officers must embrace diversity, treat everyone fairly, and show respect regardless of how
someone looks. By informing your superior, you are ensuring that further action will be
taken against the officer.
Q41 Answers
A. Fairly Efficient. In this scenario, given the fact that a fellow officer has been knocked
over. It is acceptable to place the man into custody to protect him, his colleagues and
other members of the community from harm.
B. Counterproductive. Although it is obvious that the man is upset by the attempted theft
of his dog. Action needs to be taken against him for his actions in assaulting the other
man and knocking your colleague to the ground.
C. Efficient. This is the most efficient response in dealing with attempted theft and assault.
You must remain impartial, not favouring either person and deal with each suspect fairly.
D. Counterproductive. This is a bad response. You cannot offer to try and get the man off
the charges. As much as you can sympathise with the man being upset about his dog
almost being stolen, you cannot condone what he has done. You need to remain impartial
and treat both parties fairly.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 73 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q42 Answers
A. Inefficient. Although you have reminded your colleague of what the station head has
sent, further action is required, as they have blatantly disregarded an instruction and not
maintained confidentiality which forms part of the value of transparency.
B. Fairly Efficient. By stepping in and halting the interview, you are preventing the issue
from escalating further. By informing your superior, you allow them to act against the
officer for not maintaining confidentiality.
C. Efficient. By stopping the interview and challenging the behaviour, you are
demonstrating integrity. By informing the station head, you are ensuring that the
appropriate action is taken against the officer for the confidentiality breach.
D. Counterproductive. This is a poor action. Carrying on listening will do nothing to help
the situation and will make matters worse. You need to stop the interview and challenge
your colleague’s behaviour immediately.
Q43 Answers
A. Inefficient. This will not help you. Sooner or later, the new system will become
standard, and you need to be able to use it to provide a professional service to the public.
B. Counterproductive. This will take longer to master the system. As a police officer, you
need to be able to recognise when to ask for help. This is a good example of that.
C. Efficient. This is the best response. You have recognised your issue and asked for
extra training to help you master the new system.
D. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response. By asking your colleagues for help to
master the system. The only downside is that the station you work at is very busy and has
minimal staff, so the best option would be to ask for further training on the system to avoid
using a colleague’s time.
Q44 Answers
A. Counterproductive. The senior officer needs to be challenged for his behaviour.
However, doing it in the meeting is likely to escalate the issue further.
B. Fairly Efficient. You are demonstrating emotional awareness by supporting the new
officer and asking if they would like to take further action.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 74 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
C. Efficient. This is a good response. You offer support to the new officer and challenge
the senior officer for what they said. This demonstrates integrity, and we deliver, support
and inspire.
D. Inefficient. Although you are offering your support to the new officer, you are condoning
the senior officer's actions by not challenging them.
Q45 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is a poor action. You should not speak with parents about their
children’s behaviour without investigating the issue. Analysing the root cause of the issue
will help to resolve it.
B. Counterproductive. This will escalate the issue and cause further problems for the
shopping centre and shop owners. Banning under 18s is an overreaction and
demonstrates a lack of impartiality and innovative thinking.
C. Fairly Efficient. By engaging directly with the teenagers, you seek to understand their
perspective and the issues they face. You can also use this to inspire more healthy and
engaging activities which will serve to solve the wider issue around the shopping centre.
Remember, the teenagers are members of the community so you need to deliver for their
needs as well as the shopping centre visitors.
D. Efficient. The best course of action is to understand the issues faced which have led to
this sudden incline of the behaviour around the shopping centre. By analysing the root
cause, you can implement actions to find a solution for both shoppers and teenagers. This
demonstrates impartiality and problem-solving.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 75 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
National SIFT Situational Judgement Test 4
Before undertaking this test, please ensure you have an excellent knowledge of the
competencies and values framework.
You have 30 minutes to answer the 15 questions. Please read the scenario carefully, then
rank each possible response Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive.
Please note that each response does not have to be a different ranking. If you believe that
two of the answer choices are counterproductive, please mark them as such.
Q46. You and a colleague are called to an accident. At first glance, it looks like no one is
injured. After viewing the incident, you can see that a white vehicle jumped the traffic light
and hit a red vehicle on the driver’s side. Once the vehicles both came to a halt, you then
witnessed the driver get out of his vehicle, open the door of the white vehicle, dragged the
driver out from the white vehicle, and punched them in the face. Passers-by quickly
intervened and separated the two men. When you have finished viewing the CCTV, you
approach the driver of the red vehicle as he shouts at you, “This lunatic deserves to be
banned from driving! He’s lucky I didn’t have my kids in the car!” How do you approach
the driver of the red car?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Remaining calm, speak with the driver of the red vehicle, and ask him if he is ok and if
he needs any medical assistance. Advise him that you viewed the CCTV evidence and
can clearly see that the driver of the white car jumped a red light, and they will be charged
with reckless driving.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Ask the driver if they are ok or need medical assistance. Explain that you have seen
the CCTV and can see that the white car is at fault. When speaking with the driver of the
red car, tell them that you can understand their anger and frustration, but they simply
cannot assault the other driver. Advise them that they may be prosecuted for their actions.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Approach the driver of the red vehicle. Ask the driver of the red vehicle if they are ok or
if they need medical assistance. Inform him that you have seen the entire incident from
CCTV and that the driver of the white vehicle jumped the light. Tell them that because of
this, you will not follow up on the assault charge.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 76 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Tell the driver of the red vehicle because of his actions, they may be arrested on
suspicion of assault, and it is likely that this will be followed through because of the CCTV
evidence. Tell him the driver of the white vehicle is also likely to be prosecuted for
dangerous driving, but that is no excuse to take matters into your own hands.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q47. You are a serving police officer, and you are about to interview a suspect which has
been brought in on burglary charges. Before going into the interview, you want to speak
with the arresting officer as you are unable to find the evidence which led to the arrest.
When you find the officer and speak to him, he says, “Evidence! We don’t need any, he
has previous form, and it’s funny how the burglaries only started once he came out of
prison”. What do you say in response?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Tell the officer that you cannot interview the suspect based on a hunch. Tell them they
will have to find evidence if they want to prosecute the suspect. Agree because of the
form of the suspect to hold them in custody for 24 hours.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Tell the officer it is completely inappropriate to hold someone in custody without
credible evidence. Tell them to release the person immediately and hope for their sake
that they don’t take action against the police.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Tell the officer that because of his completely inappropriate actions, which completely
lack integrity, you will be reporting his conduct to his superior officer so the appropriate
action can be taken. Release the suspect from custody immediately.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Tell them that you disagree with their actions but can understand their logic. Advise
them that you will start the interview to see if you can get a confession, but in the
meantime, the officer must find some hard evidence.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 77 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
48. Your shift is about to end, and you and your partner are heading back to the station in
a police car. Your partner is a probationary officer. On the way, you get caught up in
traffic. Your partner says, “Let’s just turn on the sirens to get through this traffic quickly.
We can even pass through the red light too and get signed out and home as soon as
possible.” What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Proceed to activate the police sirens so that you can pass through the traffic quickly but
safely.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Remind your partner that this is an inappropriate use of the police sirens and that they
are reserved for real emergencies.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Refuse to turn on the sirens yourself, but allow your partner to do it. That way, you are
not doing anything wrong.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Firmly say no, and then report his behaviour to your superior.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q49. You are attending a meeting with the rest of the senior managers. During the
meeting, you notice another manager, Mike, placing his hand on your colleague’s back
and shoulders. She seems extremely uncomfortable with this. Your colleague is named
Suzy. How do you handle this situation?
Please rank the following four answers:
A: Watch Mike carefully to see whether he does anything else inappropriate.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Speak to Suzy after the meeting, asking her about what you witnessed. Offer your
support.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 78 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
C: Take Mike to one side after the meeting, and inform him that you are aware of his
inappropriate behaviour.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Interrupt the meeting and challenge Mike on his behaviour.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q50. You are applying to become a police officer, and you have submitted your
application when you recall you mistakenly omitted some vital information. In regards to a
fixed penalty notice you received for a driving-related offence. You have always protested
your innocence, and even the officer said that you were extremely unfortunate to receive
the notice.
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Leave the information out. You know you are innocent, and it was only a minor issue.
You can discuss it at the interview if necessary.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Telephone the HR team of the force you are applying to, advise them of the issue and
ask if you can re-submit the form with the information included.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Do nothing, this happened a few years ago, and it is unlikely that this will be picked up
by the HR team.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Send an email to the forces HR team referring to your application and including the
information not declared on the application form.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 79 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q51. You are enjoying an evening out with a colleague and on a train. You could not buy
a ticket as the ticket office was closed, but you are going to purchase one when you see
the conductor. The conductor approaches you, and you purchase the ticket. When he
asks your colleague for his ticket, your colleague pulls out his warrant card and says, “I
am a serving police officer. Do I have to pay?” The conductor states, “I can see that, sir,
but your force is not part of our area, so you cannot travel free, I am afraid, but you are
entitled to a 10% discount”. Your colleague replies, “That is ridiculous, I risk my life for
people like you!” Your colleague then begrudgingly pays for his ticket.
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Berate your colleague for their behaviour. Tell them it is unacceptable to expect a free
ride just because we are police officers.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Tell your colleague it was a good try, but he should not try it again. Laugh about it and
then forget it and move on.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Tell your colleague that their actions were completely inappropriate and blatant abuse
of his power as a police officer.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Explain to your colleague that the man was only doing his job and tell him to chill out,
as you are on a night out to de-stress.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q52. When you receive a call to respond to a potential shoplifting incident in the local
department store, you are on patrol with a colleague. On your way to the department
store, you notice an elderly gentleman on the other side of the road who looks unsteady
on his feet and in need of possible help. You can see that a younger man has stopped
and is talking to him. What do you do in this situation?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Call for assistance for the elderly gentleman. Quickly run over to the man to find out
what the issue is and tell him that help is on the way and will be with you shortly.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 80 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
B. Carry on to your destination with your colleague. You can see that the man is getting
help from the person talking to him, so your assistance is not needed. It is important that
the shoplifting incident is dealt with.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Tell your colleague to head to the department store. Approach the elderly man to see if
he requires assistance. If so, call for the relevant service and stay with the man until help
arrives.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Assume that it is just the effects of people getting older. It happens to everyone at
some point in their life, and this should not deter you from tacking important things.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q53. You are a customer service assistant at a local electronics shop. A customer enters
who recently purchased a new TV and wants to return the item as it is faulty. The
customer approaches your colleague and explains the issue to him.
Please rank the following four answers:
Customer: “Hi, I purchased this TV last month, and it has stopped working. There is
power, but the screen does not work”.
Colleague: “Let me check the TV set for you. Please give me 10 minutes”.
Colleague: “After checking the set, I can see that one of the elements in the back of the
set is damaged. I am afraid that the TV is beyond repair, I am very sorry. Do you have A
warranty?”
Customer: “No, I don’t! But surely, as I only purchased last month, I would qualify for a
replacement?”
Colleague: “No, I am sorry, without a warranty, we can’t replace the TV. At the end of the
day, that’s what the warranty is there for. Sorry, I can’t help you any further”.
At this point, the customer becomes quite irate and demands to speak to the manager. He
shouts that he will make everyone aware of the shoddy service he has received and will
leave negative reviews. The manager is on holiday. You are the most senior member of
staff in the shop. How do you handle the customer?
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 81 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
A: Approach the customer and apologise for the way your colleague spoke to them.
Inform the customer that the manager is not working today, but you will take the
customer’s details and get the manager to call them upon his return.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Apologise to the customer for the manner in which your colleague spoke to them. But,
reiterate the warranty policy. Inform them that without the warranty, you will be unable to
replace the faulty TV set.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Approach the customer and listen to their concerns. Apologise for how your colleague
spoke to them and advise that you will ensure your manager learns about your
colleague’s poor customer service skills. Reiterate the warranty policy and advise that
there is nothing else you can do other than offer a discount on a new TV set.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Approach the customer and listen to their concerns. Apologise for the way your
colleague spoke to them. Advise the customer that you will provide a replacement TV set,
although they do not have a warranty. Poor reviews could cost the company more than a
replacement TV set. Advise the manager to ensure your colleague receives adequate
training in customer service skills.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q54. You work for a local shopping centre management team. You have just finished
work and are heading through the centre when you overhear a man being aggressive
towards a lady by the lifts. He seems upset as the lady has pushed in front of him in the
queue to the lift. Since the pandemic, you have restricted access to one household per lift,
but there are no further policies or rules on the priorities of its use. There are a number of
other lifts on the floor. The man says to the lady:
Man: “I was waiting here first; you’ll regret pushing in front of me once we get into the
carpark.”
Lady: “How dare you speak to me like this. As you can see, I am a pregnant lady and
have a baby in the pushchair which should take priority!”
Man: “As I said, you will regret this!”
How do you respond to this scenario? Please rank the following four answers:
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 82 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
A: Listen to what is being said but carry on to your car. On the way past the security desk,
advise the security staff on what is happening and ask them to intervene to ensure the
lady gets to her car safely.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B: Call the security team and then approach the man. Tell him that it is unacceptable to
behave in this manner. He should apologise to the lady. Inform the man that the security
team are on the way to detain him until the police arrive. Apologise to the lady for the way
the man spoke to her. Escort the lady to her car and ensure she leaves the shopping
centre safe and unharmed.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C: Call the security team to attend as a precaution. Approach the man and woman and
speak to them both. Listen to their concerns and take into consideration their needs. Ask
the man to refrain from any further threats. Inform the lady that the man was in the queue
first and that he should use the lift next. Escort the lady to an alternative lift and her car to
ensure no further incidents occur.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D: Approach the man and the woman and instruct them both to stop arguing. Tell the man
you will not tolerate any threatening behaviour to any members of staff or other shoppers.
Get the security team to remove the man from the premises and ban him from returning.
Inform the police of the incident.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 83 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q55. You are a serving police officer. You have been called to investigate an assault on a
person who has recently been released from prison, Derek Williams. The man was
previously convicted of multiple assaults for which he served eight years for. Within a
week of his release, Derek was attacked and left severely injured in the hospital.
Fortunately, for the investigation, a neighbour witnessed the incident and captured a
suspect leaving the area after the assault. On the CCTV inspection, you identified the
suspect as James Pickle. James was a previous victim of Derek’s long list of assaults.
You suspect it could be a revenge attack, so you travel to James’s address to speak with
him. Once at the address, James opens the door and says, “Come to get me for dealing
with that scum! He didn’t get half of what he deserved, so I did you guys a favour. You
should be giving me a medal”. How do you initially respond?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Say to James, “I understand that you are unhappy with the length of sentence the
victim received, so blame the court. But that does not give you the right to attack Derek,
even though he is a thug”.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Say to James, “Regardless of what you believe, we cannot allow people to attack
another person, regardless of your reasoning”.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Say to James, “I completely agree with you, James. If it were down to me, I would give
you a medal. Derek deserves all that he gets and more. Unfortunately, it is not down to
me, I am afraid.”
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Say to James, “As far as I am concerned, what you have done, makes you no better. I
understand that you are hurt by what happened to you, and we are sorry, but we cannot
allow victims to take retribution.”
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 84 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q56. You have been called to an incident between two ladies outside a local pub. You are
speaking to a witness and notice your colleague acting inconsistently when dealing with
the two women. One of the women is clearly upset, whilst the other woman is smiling and
seems to be having small talk with your colleague. After speaking with your colleague,
you both decide the best course of action is to warn both ladies about their conduct as
they are both equally at fault and instruct them to move on. When back in the car, you ask
your colleague why he was treating one of the women differently, he states, “Did you not
know who that was? That was the Chief Constables' daughter! We can’t afford to upset
her”. How do you respond?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Tell your colleague, “Oh, I didn’t know that. But surely that does not give us the right to
treat her differently to the other woman?”
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Tell your colleague, “That’s fair enough, I do not want to get into trouble with the chief
constable, so you did the right thing”.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Tell your colleague, “I can’t understand why you did it. You know that’s not right. They
were both equally at fault. You have not acted fairly”.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Tell your colleague, “That is unacceptable, you need to treat both equally, and you
have failed to do so, report your colleague”.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 85 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q57. You are on patrol in your local community when a local resident approaches you and
asks if you can help him with an enquiry. The person is trying to contact a colleague of
yours in regard to a statement he made and would like to add to it. He tells you the name
of the colleague he is trying to contact. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Tell the local resident that they will have to wait until your colleague is on patrol to add
to the statement given to him.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Use your radio to contact your colleague and ask him to meet you and the resident so
he can add to his statement.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Ask the man about the situation and offer to take the statement for your colleague. You
can then relay the information to your colleague.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Take the man to the station to speak with your colleague, so he can take the statement
from the resident.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q58. You are in a patrol car with a colleague, and she does not look very happy. You ask
her what is wrong. You are aware she has just been through a break-up after being
married for 15 years. She confides in you that she is so relieved to be partnered with you
today, as she has been dreading coming on shift, thinking she would be partnered with
Adam. She tells you that Adam has been acting inappropriately, not physically, but
mentally, by bullying her, telling her to ‘snap out of it’, ‘get a grip’ and ‘go sick if you are
not ready to return to work’. What do you say?
A. Tell her that you are horrified that Adam would speak to her like that. Inform her that
you will tell the sergeant about it when you return to the station so that they can sort out
Adam.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Sympathise with her and tell her you are sorry she is going through this. But maybe
some of what Adam is saying is right. Maybe she should consider time off.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 86 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Offer your full support, and ask what she would like to do about it. Tell her you will
challenge Adam about the behaviour and inform their superior, as any type of bullying is
unacceptable.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. Tell her she should confront Adam directly and ask him to stop the bullying, as it is
unacceptable. Tell her to contact the sergeant for further action if he doesn't stop.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
Q59. You are working on a time-sensitive production assembly line and have an idea that
you believe will increase productivity and efficiency. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Leave your workstation immediately to inform your line manager about your idea.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
B. Do nothing. You are only an assembly worker, and it is not your responsibility to think
of ways to improve the efficiency of the company.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
C. Wait for an appropriate time, such as a work break, to approach your line manager and
inform them of your idea and ask for their feedback.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
D. During your own time, run a trial on the production line to test your theory. If you have
positive results, then approach your line manager and tell them about your idea.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/ Inefficient/ Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 87 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q60. You are a police officer on patrol with a colleague walking along the high street. A
lady approaches you in regards to a young man on a push bike performing stunts along
the high street. She says that the stunts the man is performing are dangerous and a risk
to himself and the crowds gathering around to watch. Your colleague has confirmed that
they have been advised that someone has already been knocked over. The lady says,
“why doesn’t he use the local bike park for this”. What do you do?
Please rank the following four answers:
A. Go to where the crowd is gathering and observe for a while whether the stunts are a
danger to the public and make a decision based on this.
Efficient/Fairly Efficient/Inefficient/Counterproductive
B. Immediately recognise the danger, halt the stunt man’s activities, and disperse the
crowd before anyone gets injured. Tell them they will have to find another location to
practice the stunts.
Efficient/Fairly Efficient/Inefficient/Counterproductive
C. Approach the rider and halt the activity. Tell them that the high street is not the best
place for this. Tell them they can use the bike park, which is safer.
Efficient/ Fairly Efficient/Inefficient/Counterproductive
D. Tell your colleague to disperse the gathering crowd. Approach the rider and tell him to
stop this activity at once. Tell them it is a danger to the public, and if you see them doing it
again, you will arrest them.
Efficient/Fairly Efficient/Inefficient/Counterproductive
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 88 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
National SIFT Situational Judgement Test 4 Answers & Explanations
Q46 Answers
A. Inefficient. As you do not question the suspected assault, this is a poor response.
Regardless of the driver of the white vehicle being at fault for the accident, you must
remain impartial and deal with the actions of the driver in the red vehicle also.
B. Efficient. This is a good response. You are dealing with both incidents with impartiality
regardless of who is at fault for the initial crash.
C. Counterproductive. This is an unacceptable action. Both of the drivers are at fault for
different incidents. Action needs to be taken against both drivers. You must remain
impartial and treat both fairly, not who you think is in the wrong.
D. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response, albeit a little abrupt. Before talking
about the incidents, you ask the driver if they are injured and require medical assistance.
Q47 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is an unacceptable response and abuse of power and
completely lacks integrity. The officer needs to be reported for his actions.
B. Inefficient. Although this is the right thing to do, it does not address the actions of the
police officer. This is a blatant misuse of power and needs to be challenged. Any actions
must be based on evidence gathered from analysing information. You cannot make
decisions based on assumptions.
C. Efficient. This is an appropriate action. The officer's conduct needs challenging, and
action is required. The actions by the officer completely lack integrity and are a blatant
misuse of police powers.
D. Counterproductive. This is an unacceptable response and abuse of power and
completely lacks integrity. The officer needs to be reported for his actions.
Q48 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor action. This lacks integrity (I use resources effectively
and efficiently, not for personal benefit).
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 89 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
B. Fairly Efficient. This is acceptable. You are challenging your colleague’s actions.
However, you should also consider reporting their actions as it lacks integrity.
C. Inefficient. By allowing your colleague to use the sirens, you are not condoning their
decision, making you any better than them.
D. Efficient. This is acceptable. You are challenging your colleague’s actions and
reporting their actions as it lacks integrity.
Q49 Answers
A. Inefficient. This does nothing to address the issue.
B. Efficient. This response indicates good ‘integrity’ and being ‘emotionally aware’ of your
colleague’s position.
C. Fairly Efficient. It is possible you could do this, but you need to speak to Suzy first, as
you may be wrongly assuming the behaviour is inappropriate.
D. Counterproductive. This poor response assumes that Suzy is unhappy with the
approach. You should check before challenging anyone.
Q50 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor response. Police officers must act with the highest
levels of integrity. This is dishonest and unacceptable if you knowingly submit incorrect
information on your application form.
B. Efficient. This is a good response. As you are addressing the issue immediately and
declaring your error.
C. Inefficient. This is a poor response and lacks integrity. This could also make matters
worse, as if this is discovered, your application would be rejected, and it may affect future
applications.
D. Fairly Efficient. This could be acceptable, but a telephone call would be quicker and will
address the issue there and then.
Q51 Answers
A. Efficient. This is a good response. Police officers are expected to behave with integrity
at all times to expect to get free travel because you are a police officer is poor and should
be challenged.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 90 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
B. Inefficient. This is not a good response. Your colleague’s behaviour needs addressing
as it lacks integrity and reflects the police service in a poor light.
C. Efficient. This is a good response. Police officers are expected to behave with integrity
at all times to expect to get free travel because you are a police officer is poor and should
be challenged.
D. Inefficient. This is not a good response. Your colleague’s behaviour needs addressing
as it lacks integrity and reflects the police service in a poor light.
Q52 Answers
A. Fairly Efficient. This is a possible action and allows you to continue to the shopping
centre.
B. Inefficient. Without checking with the man, this is a poor action, as you are acting on
assumptions. At the very least, you should find out if the elderly gentleman is being
assisted by the younger man before heading to the shopping centre.
C. Efficient. This is a good action. By telling your colleague to head to the shopping
centre, you can assist the elderly gentleman before assistance arrives. This demonstrates
innovative thinking and public service.
D. Counterproductive. This is a poor response and does nothing to assist the man. At the
very least, you should find out if the elderly gentleman is being assisted by the younger
man before heading to the shopping centre.
Q53 Answers
A. Inefficient. Although you are attempting to solve the issue, it will likely not prevent the
customer from leaving damaging reviews for the service received. Waiting for the
manager to return would do nothing but frustrate the customer further. With the
information presented to you, as the senior staff member, you should decide in the best
interest of the customer and the business.
B. Counterproductive. This does nothing to address the customers' concerns and will
escalate the issue further. As the senior staff member, you need to decide which benefits
the customer and the business.
C. Inefficient. This does nothing to address the customer's concerns and will escalate the
issue further. As the senior staff member, you need to decide which benefits the customer
and the business. You should offer a full refund or direct replacement.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 91 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
D. Efficient. The best answer to this scenario is option D. You must listen to the customer
to understand the full impact of your colleague’s poor customer service. This
demonstrates ‘emotional awareness’. By making the decision to provide a replacement
TV set, demonstrates you are ‘taking ownership’ by making this decision and accepting
that the service provided wasn’t adequate. This also shows that you weigh up the pros
and cons of your decisions, which is part of the ‘we analyse critically’ competency. The
customer has stated that they will leave negative reviews. This could be far more costly
than simply replacing the TV. By recommending to your manager that your colleague
receive coaching with his customer service skills, you demonstrate ‘we deliver, support
and inspire’.
Q54 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor action; this could quickly escalate, and you need to
recognise that intervention is required. As a police officer, you would be expected to
intervene in situations like this (public service). You would also be required to
demonstrate impartiality and problem-solving skills to find a solution to the issues.
B. Inefficient. You should call security and approach the two people. However, you need
to remain impartial. You are assuming that the man is at fault. This will not help to resolve
the concern.
C. Efficient. The most appropriate response to this scenario. By speaking to them both
and understanding their concerns, you demonstrate the value of ‘impartiality’. You are
also showing fairness in your decision to allow the man to use the lift first, as the policy
only states one household per lift at any one time and does not include priority for those
pregnant or with pushchairs. This also demonstrates ‘we take ownership’ and ‘public
service’ by escorting the lady to an alternate lift and then to her car to ensure she leaves
safely without any further incidents.
D. Counterproductive. This is a poor action which lacks impartiality and public service.
You need to find a solution which is suitable for both parties. Unless the man has
committed an offence, you should not remove and ban him from the premises. This would
have a negative impact on the centre. Informing the police is not necessary.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 92 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q55 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is a poor response. Although you are challenging James for his actions,
you are not being impartial by calling and are acting inappropriately by calling Derek a
‘thug’. You need to act and make decisions based on the information received and
demonstrate impartiality, integrity and public service. Remember, Derek is also a member
of the community and the victim of assault.
B. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response. You are challenging James’s behaviour
and making it clear that you cannot allow assaults of any kind to take place, regardless of
reasoning. The only thing this answer lacks is emotional awareness, as it does not
mention the initial assault by Derek.
C. Counterproductive. This is an unacceptable response. This lacks integrity, impartiality,
emotional awareness and public service. Derek has been assaulted and needs to be
treated with respect and impartiality. This statement basically condones James’s actions.
D. Efficient. This is an acceptable response. This demonstrates empathy for James, as he
is still affected by the assault by Derek, which has led to the assault. However, it is also
rightly firm in its response, stating that James’s action makes him no better than Derek
and that it is not acceptable to assault Derek.
Q56 Answers
A. Inefficient. This statement recognises that both parties have not been treated with
impartiality. However, you should not need to ask the question. All police officers need to
treat all members of the public with the same levels of respect, fairness and
professionalism, regardless of who they are.
B. Counterproductive. This is a very poor response. This is condoning your colleague's
actions and going along with what they think. This completely lacks impartiality and public
service.
C. Fairly Efficient. This is a good response. You are challenging your colleague’s actions,
as they have not acted consistently when dealing with the two women. Both are at fault
and should be treated the same. Your response demonstrates integrity.
D. Efficient. This is the best action. You are challenging your colleague’s behaviour as
they have demonstrated a lack of impartiality by giving one of the women preferential
treatment. This will reflect poorly on police officers and the force in general if it is allowed
to continue, so the colleague needs reporting for the inappropriate actions.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 93 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q57 Answers
A. Counterproductive. This is a poor action. This does nothing to help the local resident.
You need to provide options for the person so they can add to their statement.
B. Fairly Efficient. This is an acceptable response. By offering to contact your colleague,
you can arrange for the resident to be able to add to their statement as required.
C. Efficient. This is a good response. Speaking to the man and offering to take the
statement on behalf of your colleague is an efficient use of police resources and saves
time.
D. Inefficient. This is not required. You can take the statement for your colleague, so there
is no need to bring the man to the station to see your colleague.
Q58 Answers
A. Fairly Efficient. This response shows that you disagree with Adams's actions and will
tell your sergeant about the issues when you return to the station so that further action
can be taken.
B. Counterproductive. This is a poor response. Although you are showing empathy for
your colleague, but your approach to Adams's comments lacks emotional awareness. You
should be offering support to your colleague and not validating any of Adam’s comments.
C. Efficient. This is a good response. You offer your colleague full support and emotional
awareness by asking how she would like to proceed. You are also taking ownership of the
situation by challenging Adam’s inappropriate behaviour and speaking with your superior
so that further action can be taken.
D. Inefficient. Although you could suggest this. However, you should offer your support
and assist her in any way you can to stop the bullying and ensure that the appropriate
action is taken against Adam for his actions. This response lacks emotional awareness,
and we deliver, support and inspire.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 94 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
Q59 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is not an ideal response. If you leave your workstation, this could have
a knock-on effect assembly line.
B. Counterproductive. This is a poor response. All police officers should share
suggestions to improve existing working practices and methods. This response lacks the
competency we are innovative and open-minded.
C. Efficient. This response shows a good level of being innovative and open-minded, and
we take ownership. This also ensures that your action does not affect production by
waiting for a break. This also demonstrates we deliver, support and inspire.
D. Fairly Efficient. This could work, but you should share this with your manager first to get
authorisation to run the trial. It does, however, demonstrate a level of innovation and
deliver, support and inspire.
Q60 Answers
A. Inefficient. This is not a great response. Although it is reasonable to observe and
analyse critically, as you have already been advised that someone has been knocked
over it is safe to make the decision based on the evidence you have (impartiality) that
someone could get hurt if the activity is not stopped.
B. Inefficient. This is an acceptable response. As you have recognised that someone
could be hurt and have put a stop to the activity. However, you could go further and use
what you have been told to advise the rider to use the local bike park, which would be
safer for everyone. You need to provide a solution for both parties. The response lacks
impartiality, public service and elements of being innovative and open-minded.
C. Efficient. This is the best approach. By preventing further occurrences on the high
street and advising a location where the rider can practice their skills safely. This finds a
solution for both parties and helps to keep the community safe. This demonstrates public
service. Impartiality, and we are innovative and open-minded.
D. Counterproductive. This is a poor and unnecessary approach. By doing this, you are
not showing any form of impartiality or public service to the rider. You should use
innovation to find a viable solution for both parties.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A

=== PAGE 95 ===

www.How2B ecome.com
How to Use These Questions and Answers:
These test questions and answers are intended to guide you in your preparation for your
Police officer selection process. These questions have been picked by the How2Become
team because we believe that they are the best representative of what you will you will
have to demonstrate during the selection process.
The sample answers in this resource are collated from years of experience and research
in the recruitment sector. The answers confidently display the appropriate qualities and
competencies that the interviewer expects from successful candidates.
Read the sample answers carefully, and take note of what skills and competencies they
demonstrate.
Disclaimer:
How2Become is not responsible for anyone failing any part of any selection process as a result of
the information contained within this resource. How2Become and their authors cannot accept any
responsibility for any errors or omissions within this resource, however caused. No responsibility
for loss or damage occasioned by any person acting, or refraining from action, as a result of the
material in this publication can be accepted by How2Become.
IMPORTANT: All resources, products, content, and training from How2Become is intended for
educational use only, as an aid to help you prepare and come up with your own honest answers.
How2Become is not acting in conjunction with, or associated with, any third-party organisation.
Get more guides, books and training courses at the website www.How2Become.com.
Copyright © How2Become.com. All Rights Reserved. For personal use only.
POLICE OFFICER NATIONAL SIFT SJT Q&A